As an alternative of knee-protection surgery, unicompartmental knee arthroplasty has been widely used for the treatment of knee osteoarthritis and has achieved good clinical results. However, reports on its data and trend are scanty. This article reviewed current status and trend in the research of Unicompartmental Knee Arthroplasty; KOA: Knee Osteoarthritis;, and compared different regions, organizations and authors in terms of their contributions to the field. The literature on Unicompartmental Knee Arthroplasty; KOA: Knee Osteoarthritis; ranging from 2009 to 2019 was searched in the “Web of Science” database, and the search results were visually presented by using Excel and VOS-viewer software packages, and the status quo and development trends of relevant studies were analyzed. A total of 1264 articles on Unicompartmental Knee Arthroplasty; KOA: Knee Osteoarthritis; were identified, of which 330 were the larger studies conducted in the United States. The institution that published most papers was Oxford University, with a total of 109 papers published. MURRheumatoid Arthritis;Y DW was the largest contributor in this field. The National Institutes of Health was the largest funding agencies of the Unicompartmental Knee Arthroplasty; KOA: Knee Osteoarthritis;. Studies could be divided into six clusters in terms of prosthesis design, follow-up investigation, Osteoarthritis; etiology, hip-knee association, joint replacement registration, and computer navigation. “Computer-aided navigation” and “gait analysis” promise to be future hot spots in the field of Unicompartmental Knee Arthroplasty; KOA: Knee Osteoarthritis; research. Global trend analysis suggests that Unicompartmental Knee Arthroplasty; KOA: Knee Osteoarthritis; research is gradually deepening and the number of papers has been on the rise. The USA was the largest contributor to this field. More research effort should be directed to “Computer-aided navigation”and “gait analysis”, which might be the popular topics in the Unicompartmental Knee Arthroplasty; KOA: Knee Osteoarthritis; field in not very distant future.