To compare the prescription modalities of general practitioners (General Practitioner;s) and rheumatologists (RHs) for symptomatic knee osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) and to determine correlates with prescription of low-dose Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s.This observational, prospective, national survey was carried out among a national representative sample of General Practitioner;s (n = 808) and RHs (n = 134). Each physician completed a medical questionnaire for the 2 most recent patients fulfilling the American College of Rheumatology; criteria for knee Osteoarthritis;. General Practitioner;s and RHs included 1,570 and 251 patients, respectively. Mean pain level of the knee (on a Visual analog score;, 0-100 mm) was greater for General Practitioner; patients than for RH patients (49.8 ± 16.3 vs. 46.2 ± 17.1 mm, respectively; p < 0.01). As compared with patients of RHs, those of General Practitioner;s more frequently had another joint affected by Osteoarthritis;: 71.2% vs. 63.7% (p < 0.0001) and more often had hypertension and diabetes mellitus (p < 0.05). As compared with RHs, General Practitioner;s more frequently prescribed low-dose Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s (p < 0.0001), oral Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s (p < 0.05), and topical Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s (p < 0.0001) but less frequently symptomatic slow-acting drugs for Osteoarthritis; (p < 0.01). Moreover, General Practitioner;s more frequently recommended rehabilitation (p < 0.01) and loss of weight (p < 0.0001). Logistic regression analysis revealed an association of low-dose Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s prescription and prescription by General Practitioner;s, prescription of topical Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s, no prescription of oral Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s or coxibs and no intra-articular injection of steroids. This study identified speciality-related variability in some aspects of the management of knee Osteoarthritis;. The clinical profile of patients with knee Osteoarthritis; differed between General Practitioner;s and RHs.