elative young and more active patients with osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) of the isolated medial femorotibial compartment in conjunction with anterior cruciate ligament (Adenylyl cyclase;L) deficiency are difficult to treat. The aim of this study was to explore the early clinical outcomes of combined Oxford unicompartmental knee arthroplasty (Unicondylar knee arthroplasty) and Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction for the patients presenting Adenylyl cyclase;L deficiency and isolated Osteoarthritis; of the medial compartment.Twenty-eight patients were included into the study. All patients were treated by combined Oxford Unicondylar knee arthroplasty and Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction. Plain radiographs in the antero-posterior and lateral view and long-leg standing radiographs were routinely performed prior to and after surgery. Stress radiographs in valgus were additionally available in order to verify the well-preserved lateral compartment. The varus deformity of the knee prior to surgery and the valgus degree after surgery, the posterior slope of the tibial component and the range of motion (Range of motion) of the knee after surgery were measured and recorded. Clinical evaluations include Oxford Knee Score (Oxford knee score;), Knee Society Score (knee society score;-clinical score; knee society score;-function score) and Tegner activity score. e patients were followed up for 52 ± 8 months. The leg alignment showed 3.1 ± 0.6° of varus deformity prior to surgery and 4.0 ± 0.7° of valgus after surgery. The Oxford knee score;, knee society score; and Tegner activity score improved significantly after surgery (P < 0.05). The mean Range of motion of the operated knee was 123.5 ± 2.8° at the last follow-up. The posterior slope of the tibial component was 3.9 ± 1.2°. A significant correlation was found between them according to the Pearson’s correlation (r = 0.39, P = 0.03). There were 2 patients (7 %) with the complication of mobile bearing dislocation, and a second operation of replacing a thicker mobile bearing was performed for them. The early clinical data have shown that combined surgery of Unicondylar knee arthroplasty and Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction has revealed promising results. However, long-term follow-up studies should be done in these patients.