Physical exercise and educational programs promote several benefits for patients with knee osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;). However, little is known about the effects of educational programs promoting the regular practice of physical exercise. The purpose of the present study was to assess the effect of an interdisciplinary educational program, emphasizing the recommendation for regular practice of physical exercise, on functional capacity and daily living physical activity in individuals with knee Osteoarthritis;. Two hundred and thirty-nine individuals (50 men) with an established diagnosis of knee Osteoarthritis; (degree I to IV in the Kelgreen and Lawrence scale) were randomly allocated into a multidisciplinary educational program (Educational program group;; n = 112) or control group (Control group;; n = 127). Functional capacity (sit and reach, 6-min walking test (6-min walk test;), timed up and down stairs test, timed up and go test (Timed Up and Go TestT), and five times sit-to-stand test (Five times sit-to-stand test;)) and daily living physical activity (International Physical Activity Quartiles;uestionnaire;, short version) were measured before, during (6 months) and after 12 months of follow-up. Body mass index reduced significantly (P < 0.05) after 6 months, and remained reduced after 12-month of follow-up in Educational program group;, but not in Control group;. Educational program group; group improved (P < 0.05) timed up and down stairs (19%), Timed Up and Go TestT (32.5%) and Five times sit-to-stand test; (30%) performance after 6 months of follow-up, which remained improved after 12 months of follow-up. Functional capacity did not change in Control group;, excepted for the timed up and down stairs performance that increased after 6 months (12%, P < 0.05), but returned to levels similar to baseline after 12 months of follow-up. There was also an increase (P < 0.05) in the prevalence of active and very active individuals, as well as a reduction (P < 0.05) in the prevalence of sedentary individuals in Educational program group; group during follow-up. There were no significant changes on sit and reach and 6-min walk test; performance during follow-up in both groups. The results suggest that an educational program emphasizing the recommendation for regular practice of physical exercise may be an effective tool for improving functional capacity and daily physical activity in individuals with knee Osteoarthritis;.