There is a lack of high quality evidence concerning the efficacy of total knee arthroplasty (Total knee arthroplasty). According to international evidence-based guidelines, treatment of knee osteoarthritis (KOsteoarthritis;) should include patient education, exercise and weight loss. Insoles and pharmacological treatment can be included as supplementary treatments. If the combination of these non-surgical treatment modalities is ineffective, Total knee arthroplasty may be indicated. The purpose of this randomised controlled trial is to examine whether Total knee arthroplasty provides further improvement in pain, function and quality of life in addition to optimised non-surgical treatment in patients with KOsteoarthritis; defined as definite radiographic Osteoarthritis; and up to moderate pain. The study will be conducted in The North Denmark Region. 100 participants with radiographic KOsteoarthritis; (K-L grade ≥2) and mean pain during the previous week of ≤ 60 mm (0–100, best to worst scale) who are considered eligible for Total knee arthroplasty by an orthopaedic surgeon will be included. The treatment will consist of 12 weeks of optimised non-surgical treatment consisting of patient education, exercise, diet, insoles, analgesics and/or Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s. Patients will be randomised to either receiving or not receiving a Total knee arthroplasty in addition to the optimised non-surgical treatment. The primary outcome will be the change from baseline to 12 months on the Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score;)4 defined as the average score for the subscale scores for pain, symptoms, activities of daily living, and quality of life. Secondary outcomes include the five individual Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; subscale scores, European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions;, pain on a 100 mm Visual Analogue Scale, self-efficacy, pain pressure thresholds, and isometric knee flexion and knee extension strength. This is the first randomised controlled trial to investigate the efficacy of Total knee arthroplasty as an adjunct treatment to optimised non-surgical treatment in patients with KOsteoarthritis;. The results will significantly contribute to evidence-based recommendations for the treatment of patients with KOsteoarthritis;.