While the impact of knee pain and knee osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) on health-related quality of life (HRQuality of life) has been investigated in the literature, there is a lack of knowledge on the impact of different definitions of Osteoarthritis; on HRQuality of life. The main aim of this study was to measure and compare the impact of knee Osteoarthritis; and its different definitions on HRQuality of life in the general population. A random sample of 1300 participants from Malmö, Sweden with pain in one or both knees in the past 12 months with duration ≥4 weeks and 650 participants without were invited to clinical and radiographic knee examination. A total of 1527 individuals with a mean (Standard deviation;) age 69.4 (7.2) participated and responded to both generic (EQ-5D-3L) and disease-specific (the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score) questionnaires. Knee pain was defined as pain during the last month during most of the days. Knee Osteoarthritis; was defined radiographically (equivalent to Kellgren and Lawrence grade ≥2) and clinically according to the American College of Rheumatology (AComputed radiography;) criteria. Of participants with either knee pain or knee Osteoarthritis; or both, 7 % reported no problem for the EQ-5D-3L attributes. The corresponding proportion among references (neither knee pain nor Osteoarthritis;) was 42 %. The participants with knee pain and Osteoarthritis; had all HRQuality of life measures lower compared to those with knee pain but no Osteoarthritis;. The AComputed radiography; clinical definition of knee Osteoarthritis; was associated with lower HRQuality of life than the definition based on radiographic knee Osteoarthritis; (adjusted difference −0.08 in UK EQ-5D-3L index score). Applicationlying different definitions of knee Osteoarthritis; result in different levels of HRQuality of life and this is mainly explained by the knee pain experience. These differences may lead to discrepant conclusions from cost-utility analyses.