Measurement of health-related quality of life (Health related quality of life;) among patients with osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) helps the health care provider to understand the impact of the disease in the patients' own perspective and make health services more patient-centered. The main aim of this study was to measure the quality of life among patients with symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis; attending primary care clinic. We also aimed to ascertain the association between socio-demographic and medical status of patients with knee Osteoarthritis; and their quality of life. A clinic based, cross sectional study using the Short Form-36 (Social functioning;-36) questionnaire was conducted in two primary care health clinics in Hulu Langat, Selangor, Malaysia over a period of 8 months. The nurses and medical assistants were involved in recruiting the patients while the family physicians conducted the interview. A total 151 respondents were recruited. The mean age was 65.6 ± 10.8 years with females constituted 119 (78.8%) of the patients. The mean duration of knee pain was 4.07 ± 2.96 years. Half of the patients were overweight and majority, 138 (91.4%), had at least one co-morbidity, the commonest being hypertension. The physical health status showed lower score as compared to mental health component. The domain concerning mental health components showed positive correlation with age. There was a significant negative correlation between age and physical functioning (p < 0.0005) which indicated the deterioration of this domain as patients became older. Male respondents had better scores in most of the Quality of life; dimensions especially in the physical functioning domain (p = 0.03). There was no significant association between Quality of life; with different education levels, employment status and marital status. Patients with higher body mass index (Body mass index;) and existence co-morbidities scored lower in most of the Quality of life; domains.This study has shown that patients with knee Osteoarthritis; attending primary care clinics have relatively poor quality of life pertaining to the physical health components but less impact was seen on the patients' mental health.