Current health care demonstrates an insufcient provision and utilization of physical exercises despite their recommendation as a frst-line treatment in clinical guidelines for patients with knee osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;). Mobile health (Mobile health) technologies ofer new opportunities to guide and monitor home-based exercise programs by using mobile devices and inertial sensors in combination with a digital application (app). This study will evaluate patient benefts resulting from the use of the specifc digital health application re.fex for patients with knee Osteoarthritis;. This monocentric, two-arm, randomized controlled parallel-group trial will evaluate the efectiveness of the app- and sensor-guided exercise program re.fex for patients with moderate-to-severe knee Osteoarthritis;. We aim to recruit 200 participants via newspapers, newsletters and information events. Participants will be randomly allocated to the intervention group and the control group in a 1:1 ratio. Participants in the control group will not receive any study intervention or instruction for any change to their previous health care utilization. Despite this, they are allowed to make use of usual care provided by their treating physician. The intervention group comprises a 12-week home training program with three sessions per week in addition to usual care. Exercises will be guided and monitored by use of the training app (re.fex) and two accelerometers that are attached proximally and distally to the afected knee joint. Pre- and postmeasurements will take place at baseline (t0) and after 12 weeks (Timepoint 1, collection point after 12-week study phase). Primary outcomes will be osteoarthritis-specifc pain and physical function measured with the Knee Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score;) subscales Pain and Function in daily living (Function in daily living). Second, further self-reported health outcomes, a performance measurement, app logfles and safety will be assessed. Intervention efects will be calculated by baseline-adjusted analysis of covariance (Analysis of covariance) using an intention-to-treat approach. Multiple imputation will be applied. Re.fex can bridge part of the gap between recommendations for strengthening exercises in patients with knee Osteoarthritis; and the insufcient actual care situation. This randomized controlled trial is designed to provide conclusions on the efectiveness of the health application re.fex for the population under study and will provide further insight into adherence rates and the safety of its use.