Increasing total knee arthroplasty (Total knee arthroplasty;) surgeries are being performed on working-age patients with prominent manifestations of pain and dysfunction. But few studies have explored the risk factors for pain and dysfunction in working-age patients with knee osteoarthritis (KOsteoarthritis;) being considered for Total knee arthroplasty;. Therefore, this study sought to explore the relationship between mental health/physical activity and pain/dysfunction in working-age patients with KOsteoarthritis; being considered for Total knee arthroplasty;. This study was a secondary analysis of data derived from a public database, the Work participation In Patients with Osteoarthritis cohort study, which included 152 working-age patients (65 men and 87 women) with KOsteoarthritis; planning for Total knee arthroplasty;. We analyzed preoperative data comprising age, educational level, body mass index (Body mass index;), mental factors (Patient Health Questionnaire-9  and the 36-Item Short Form Survey Instrument ), physical activity level, and clinical outcomes (the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index and 36-Item Short Form Survey Instrument; sub-item score). Multivariate regression analysis was performed to determine risk factors for pain and dysfunction in working-age patients with KOsteoarthritis; being considered for Total knee arthroplasty;. Women had lower pain, worse function, and higher Patient Health Questionnaire-9; scores than men (p < 0.001). The depression scores were significantly linearly related to pain and function scores in women after adjusting for age, Body mass index;, educational level, and physical activity (P < 0.05), whereas this relation was not observed in men. After adjusting for age, Body mass index;, educational level, and mental factors, exercise time was found to be positively correlated with pain scores in women (P < 0.05). Depression scores and exercise time were significantly correlated with pain and dysfunction in working-age women with KOsteoarthritis; being considered for Total knee arthroplasty;.