Metabolomics is a tool to study the pathogenesis of diseases and their associated metabolites, but there are still insufficient metabolomic studies on severe knee osteoarthritis.To investigate the differences in serum metabolites between healthy populations and knee osteoarthritis (KOsteoarthritis;) patients in Southern China using widely targeted metabolomics, and to explore biomarkers and their metabolic pathways that could be associated with the severity of KOsteoarthritis;. There were 10 healthy individuals in the control group and 32 patients with KOsteoarthritis;. According to the Kellgren–Lawrence (Kellgren–Lawrence;) grading system, KOsteoarthritis; was further divided into mild (n=13, Kellgren–Lawrence; grade 1 and 2) and severe (n=19, Kellgren–Lawrence; grade 3 and 4). Serum samples from all participants were collected and analyzed metabolomics based on ultra-performance liquid chromatography/electrospray ionization/tandem mass spectrometry. We screened for differential metabolites between patients and controls, and between mild and severe KOsteoarthritis;. We explored the metabolic pathways involved in differential metabolism using the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes database. Sixty-one metabolites were differentially expressed in the sera of the patient group compared with the control group (45 upregulated and 16 downregulated). Analysis of the mild and severe KOsteoarthritis; groups showed a total of 12 differential metabolites. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis showed N-alpha-acetyl-L-asparagine was a good predictor of advanced osteoarthritis(Osteoarthritis;).Differential metabolites are enriched in multiple pathways such as arachidonic acid metabolism. Widely targeted metabolomics found that upregulation of the amino acid metabolite N-α-acetyl-Lasparagine was significantly associated with severe KOsteoarthritis; and could be a biomarker for predicting severity of KOsteoarthritis;. Arachidonic acid metabolism may play an important role in patients with severe KOsteoarthritis;.