The infrapatellar fat pad (Infrapatellar fat pad) may have bilateral influence on knee osteoarthritis (KOsteoarthritis;). Infrapatellar fat pad evaluation may be a key contributor to the diagnostic and clinical management of KOsteoarthritis;. Few studies have evaluated KOsteoarthritis;-related Infrapatellar fat pad alteration with radiomics. We investigated radiomic signature for the assessment of Infrapatellar fat pad for KOsteoarthritis; progression in older adults. A total of 164 knees were enrolled and grouped based on Kellgren-Lawrence (Kellgren & Lawrence;) scoring. Magnetic resonance imaging;-based radiomic features were calculated from Infrapatellar fat pad segmentation. The radiomic signature was developed using the most predictive subset of features and the machine-learning algorithm with minimum relative standard deviation. KOsteoarthritis; severity and structure abnormality were assessed using a modified whole-organ magnetic resonance imaging score (WOdds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles;epetition maximum.S). The performance of the radiomic signature was evaluated and the correlation with WOdds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles;epetition maximum.S assessments was analyzed. The area under the curve of the radiomic signature for diagnosing KOsteoarthritis; was 0.83 and 0.78 in the training and test datasets, respectively. Rad-scores were 0.41 and 2.01 for the training dataset in the groups with and without KOsteoarthritis; (P<0.001) and 0.63 and 2.31 for the test dataset (P=0.005), respectively. WOdds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles;epetition maximum.S significantly and positively correlated with rad-scores. The radiomic signature may be a reliable biomarker to detect Infrapatellar fat pad abnormality of KOsteoarthritis;. Radiomic alterations in Infrapatellar fat pad were associated with severity and knee structural abnormalities of KOsteoarthritis; in older adults.