Osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) is a leading cause of disability and a source of societal costs among older adults, especially with an increasingly obese population. However, very few published studies have investigated the burden of knee and hip Osteoarthritis; due to a high body mass index (Body mass index;). Therefore, this study aimed to systematically summarize the trends of knee and hip Osteoarthritis; due to a high Body mass index; in China and the United States.A between 1990 and 2019. Data from the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019 were used to estimate the age-standardized prevalence, disability-adjusted life years (Disability-adjusted life years;) rates of knee and hip Osteoarthritis;, and the burden of knee and hip Osteoarthritis; due to a high Body mass index; by sex. Joinpoint regression analysis was used to determine the temporal trend changes in the related Disability-adjusted life years; rates of knee and hip Osteoarthritis;. The trends in the Disability-adjusted life years; rates of knee Osteoarthritis; due to a high Body mass index; have shown a steady and large increase in China, while the trends frst showed an increase followed by a large decrease near 2001-2005 and fnally a steady increase in the United States.A. The trends in the Disability-adjusted life years; rates of hip Osteoarthritis; due to a high Body mass index; have shown a steady and large increase in both men and women in China and the United States.A from 1990 to 2019. For the comparison by age categories from 30 to 34 years to 90–94 years in 2019, the age-standardized Disability-adjusted life years; rates due to a high Body mass index; frst increased and then decreased after 60–64 years and 70-74 years in both men and women from China and the United States.A for knee Osteoarthritis;, respectively. For hip Osteoarthritis;, the age-standardized Disability-adjusted life years; rates frst increased and then decreased after 70–74 years in both men and women from China and the United States.A. The burden of knee and hip Osteoarthritis; due to a high Body mass index; is substantially increasing in China and the United States.A in recent years. Researchers and health policy makers should assess the changing patterns of high Body mass index; on the burden of Osteoarthritis; and devise corresponding weight-control strategies.