The progressive nature of knee osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) leads to not only to physical but also to psychosocial decline; this aspect can influence knee pain experience, manifestations and inevitably diagnostic accuracy. To analyze the role of depressive symptoms on the association between radiographic Osteoarthritis; and knee pain, understanding the ability of knee pain symptoms to find out individuals with radiographic Osteoarthritis;. : Data on 663 subjects was obtained by interview using a structured questionnaire on social, demographic, behavioural and clinical data. Painful knee was assessed regarding having pain: ever, in the last year, in the last 6 months and in the last month. Using factor analysis, participants were graded using a knee pain score, with higher scores representing more symptomatology. Depressive symptoms were evaluated with the Beck Depressive Inventory (BDI), and radiographic knee Osteoarthritis; was classified using the Kellgren Lawrence (Kellgren-Lawrence score;) scale; those with Kellgren-Lawrence score; ≥ 2 were considered as having radiographic Osteoarthritis;. Knee pain was reported by 53.2% of those with radiographic Kellgren-Lawrence score; ≥ 2 and by 33.2% of those with radiographic Kellgren-Lawrence score; < 2. The prevalence of depressive symptoms (BDI > 14) was 19.9% among participants with radiographic Kellgren-Lawrence score; ≥ 2 and 12.6% among those with radiographic Kellgren-Lawrence score; < 2 (p = 0.01). The association of knee pain with radiographic knee Osteoarthritis; was higher in higher pain scores and in participants without depressive symptoms. Among participants with BDI ≤ 14 the likelihood ratio to identify patients with radiographic knee Osteoarthritis; increased with increased pain scores: 1.02 for score 1; 2.19 for score 2 and 7.34 when participants responded positively to all pain questions (score 3). Among participants with depressive symptoms (BDI > 14) likelihood ratios were 0.51, 1.92, 1.82, respectively. The results were similar for both genders. Knee pain scores increased ability to identify participants with radiographic Kellgren-Lawrence score; ≥ 2 in both sexes. However, the presence of depressive symptoms impairs the ability of knee pain complaints to identify patients with radiographic Osteoarthritis;.