Central sensitization (CS) is becoming increasingly recognized as a significant factor in many chronic pain conditions, including knee osteoarthritis (KOsteoarthritis;) and chronic low back pain (CLBlood pressure;). Yet it presently remains unclear how strong is the involvement of CS in KOsteoarthritis; and CLBlood pressure; and which factors are involved in CS in these two chronic disabling diseases. This is a cross-sectional study in which included a total of 178 patients with KOsteoarthritis; and 118 patients with CLBlood pressure;. Inclusion criteria for eligible participants for the KOsteoarthritis; group were a confirmed diagnosis of KOsteoarthritis; according to the American College of Rheumatology criteria, and for the CLBlood pressure; group a chronic low back pain for more than 3 months. Subjects were excluded if they presented with a diagnosed psychiatric disorder or if they lacked the capacity to provide informed consent, understand study questionnaires or perform physical performance tests. In each group, were assessed; CS-related symptoms using the Central Sentization Inventory (CSI); demographic and clinical characteristics such as disease duration, pain intensity on a visual analog scale, self-reported function using the Lequesne index for KOsteoarthritis; patients and the Oswestry Disability index for CLBlood pressure; patients, and physical performance with the 6 minutes’ walk test; as well as psychosocial risk factors using the Patient Health Quartiles;uestionnaire for depression (Patient Health Quartiles;uestionnaire-9;), the Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD-7) and the Pain Catastrophizing Scale (PCS). res significantly correlated with pain intensity and disability in KOsteoarthritis; and CLBlood pressure; patients, and were highly correlated with self-reported symptoms of depression, anxiety and pain catastrophizing. Depression significantly predicted the CSI score in both groups. These findings provide further evidence for the impact of CS on pain, function and physical performance in KOsteoarthritis; and CLBlood pressure; patients. Psychosocial symptoms such as pain catastrophizing, anxiety and depression should also be considered as they are also associated with CS.