The incidence of knee osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) is rising. While several risk factors have been associated with the development of knee Osteoarthritis;, this information is not readily accessible to those at risk for osteoarthritis. Risk calculators have been developed for several prevalent chronic conditions but not for Osteoarthritis;. Using published evidence on established risk factors, we developed an interactive, personalized knee Osteoarthritis; risk calculator (Osteoarthritis; Risk C) and conducted a pilot study to evaluate its acceptability and feasibility. We used the Osteoarthritis Policy (Osteoarthritis;Pol) Model, a validated, state-transition simulation of the natural history and management of Osteoarthritis;, to generate data for Osteoarthritis; Risk C. Risk estimates for calculator users were based on a set of demographic and clinical factors (age, sex, race/ethnicity, obesity) and select risk factors (family history of knee Osteoarthritis;, occupational exposure, and history of knee injury). Osteoarthritis; Risk C presents personalized risk of knee Osteoarthritis; in several ways to maximize understanding among a wide range of users. We conducted a study of 45 subjects in a primary care setting to establish the feasibility and acceptability of the Osteoarthritis; risk calculator. Pilot study participants were asked several questions regarding ease of use, clarity of presentation, and clarity of the graphical representation of their risk. These questions used a five-level agreement scale ranging from strongly disagree to strongly agree.Osteoarthritis; Risk C depicts information about users’ risk of symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis; in 5 year intervals. Study participants estimated their lifetime risk at 38 %, while their actual lifetime risk, as estimated by Osteoarthritis; Risk C, was 25 %. Eighty-four percent of pilot study participants reported that Osteoarthritis; Risk C was easy to understand, and 89 % agreed that the graphs depicting their risk were clear and comprehensible. We have developed a personalized, computer-based Osteoarthritis; risk calculator that is easy to use. Osteoarthritis; Risk C may be utilized to estimate individuals’ knee Osteoarthritis; risk and to deliver educational and behavioral interventions focused on osteoarthritis risk reduction.