Specifc serum biomarkers of cartilage metabolism such as cartilage oligomeric matrix protein (sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein;) and procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide (sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide;) as well as hyaluronan (sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range;), a biomarker of synovitis, have been implicated in the pathophysiology of knee osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;). However, the associations of these biomarkers with the severity of the disease and Osteoarthritis; risk factors, including age and obesity remain inconclusive. This analysis examines the associations between these serum biomarkers and the radiographic severity of Osteoarthritis; and knee pain, as wells as obesity, the age and gender of the participants, and other Osteoarthritis; risk factors. From 44 patients with early knee Osteoarthritis; and 130 patients with late knee Osteoarthritis; we analyzed the radiographic severity of the disease using the Kellgren and Lawrence (Kellgren-Lawrence score;) grading system. Moreover, 38 overweight healthy indi‑ viduals were used as a control group. Specifc information was collected from all participants during their recruitment. The levels of the three serum biomarkers were quantifed using commercially available ELISA kits. Serum biomark‑ ers were analyzed for associations with the average Kellgren-Lawrence score; scores and pain in both knees, as well as with specifc Osteoarthritis; risk factors. The levels of sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein; were elevated in patients with severe late Osteoarthritis; and knee pain and correlated weakly with Osteoarthritis; severity. A weakly correlation of sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; levels and Osteoarthritis; severity Osteoarthritis; was observed. We demonstrated that only sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; levels were markedly decreased in patients with late knee Osteoarthritis; suggesting the alterations of cartilage metabolism in this arthritic disease. Moreover, we found that sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; has the strongest correlation with obesity and the severity of Osteoarthritis;, as well as with the knee pain at rest and during walking regardless of the severity of the disease. ROC analysis showed that the area under the ROC curve (Area Under Curve;) was 0.980 (95% Confdence interval.: 0.945–0.995; p<0.0001), suggesting high diagnostic accu‑ racy of sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide;. Interestingly, gender and age had also an efect on the levels of sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide;. This study revealed the potential of serum Procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; to be used as a biomarker to monitor the progression of knee Osteoarthritis;, however, further studies are warranted to elucidate its clinical implication