Knee osteoarthritis (KOsteoarthritis;) is the most common form of arthritis, causing disability and impaired quality of life especially in the elderly. Sri Lankan traditional medicine (STraditional moxibustion;) is widely used to treat Osteoarthritis;, but no clinical trial evaluated on STraditional moxibustion; regimens for KOsteoarthritis; to discuss their safety and efcacy in the treatment. The aim of this study is to compare the efcacy and safety of STraditional moxibustion; regimen for KOsteoarthritis; in comparison to recommended conventional pain management therapy over a period of 8 weeks on relieving the condition. This is a clinical trial following a protocol-driven open-labeled randomized controlled study enrolling patients with KOsteoarthritis; that will be conducted as a single-center trial in the National Ayurveda Teaching Hospital, Sri Lanka. Rasnadvigunabhagasaya herbal decoction (RDBD) and an herbal pill Yoaraja Guggulu were selected as the rescue medication for treating joint disorders. The two Ayurvedic dosage forms will be tested against the non-steroidal anti-infammatory drugs tab paracetamol and tab ibuprofen as the rescue medication for their safety and efcacy. As test products for external application, oil with an herbal fomentation—Kumburuetaperumkayam Pottani (KAP)—and paste—Sandivadam Lepaya (SVL)—were selected. External applications will be tested against the diclofenac sodium gel and hot water fomentation. KOsteoarthritis; patients will be allocated randomly into two arms, and the medications will be given orally for 60 days and externally for 30 days. The primary endpoint is the change in the score on the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; after 08 weeks. Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; and Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; will be recorded and compared between the two arms prior to visiting 1, at the end of 15 days and end of 30 days, and end of the 45 days and end of the second month and 3 months of follow-up. Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; and Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; subscales, a pain disability index, a visual analog scale for pain and sleep quality, and a quality-oflife index are used as secondary outcome measurements. This clinical trial will be able to provide evidence-based scientifc data on Sri Lankan traditional medicine regimens in the management of KOsteoarthritis;. This trial is expected to develop capacity to scientifcally evaluate various STraditional moxibustion; that are claimed to have efcacy in treatment of various disease conditions.