Patients sufering cartilage defects of the medial compartment with underlying varus deformity do beneft from high tibial osteotomy (High tibial osteotomy;) even in the long term. Nonetheless, kinematic and geometric changes espe‑ cially in the patellofemoral joint have been described. Purpose of the present study was to evaluate the infuence of patellofemoral cartilage defects detected during the diagnostic arthroscopy and their infuence on High tibial osteotomy;’s postoperative outcome. Ninety patients with a mean follow-up of 10.08±2.33 years after surgery were included. Patients were divided into four groups according to their cartilage status in the patellofemoral joint (A=no defects, B=isolated lesions of the patella, C=isolated lesions of the trochlea, D=kissing lesions). Functional outcome was evaluated before surgery and about ten years thereafter by relying on the IKDC, Lysholm, and Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score; scores. Radiological param‑ eters were assessed pre- and six weeks postoperatively. In groups A to D, the High tibial osteotomy; led to signifcant patellar distalisation in the sagittal view, with the mean indices remaining at or above the limit to a patella baja. All patients in all groups profted signifcantly from High tibial osteotomy; (higher Lysholm score, lower Visual analogue scale; p<0.001), patients in group D had the lowest outcome scores. Patella height negatively infuenced outcome scores in group C (Blackburne-Peel-Index—Visual analogue scale; p=0.033) and D (Caton-Deschamps-Index— Tegner p=0.018), a larger valgus correction was associated with lower outcome scores in group D (Lysholm p=0.044, Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score;pain 0.028, Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score;Quartiles;uality of life; p=0.004). Long-term results of High tibial osteotomy; for varus medial compartment osteoarthritis remain good to excellent even in the presence of patellofemoral defects. Overcorrection should be avoided. Distal biplanar High tibial osteotomy; should be considered for patients presenting trochlear or kissing lesions of the patellofemoral joint.