Osteoarthritis is a common disease and one of the most important causes of disability in the elderly that negatively afect the quality of their life. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efectiveness of mobile app-based-instruction in improving physical performance of female patients with knee osteoarthritis. The present study was a randomized clinical trial. The sample included 64 female patients (40 to 70 years old) with knee osteoarthritis in Bojnurd city in 2018. They were selected from the available patients that were randomly divided into comparison and intervention groups. Before the intervention, demographic information questionnaire, Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;) questionnaire, and 36-item short-form health survey (36-Item Short Form Survey Instrument;) were employed to elicit data on demographic information, arthritis condition and health status of the participants. Intervention lasted for a period of two months for each group. Intervention group received mobile-app-based instruction coupled with routine cares, while comparison group just received the routine cares. After the intervention both groups were evaluated again in terms of arthritis condition and health status using the same scales. After the intervention, signifcant diferences were found between the intervention and comparison groups in terms of overall Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; score (p=0.005), pain aspect of Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; (p=0.005), physical function aspect of Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; (p=0.005), physical function aspect of 36-Item Short Form Survey Instrument; (p≤0.05), and vitality aspect of 36-Item Short Form Survey Instrument; (p>0.05). The use of mobile-app-based instruction can enhance the physical function and quality of life in patients with knee osteoarthritis. Trial registration The research project was registered at Iranian Registry of Clinical Trials (IRandomized controlled trial;20161208031300N2).