Osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) is the most frequent cause of disability in elderly people. In daily practice, the main objective of the physician is to reduce patient symptoms using treatments without adverse efects. However, the most prescribed treatment to manage Osteoarthritis; symptoms remains nonsteroidal anti-infammatory drugs which are associated with severe adverse efects. Therefore, we need a safe alternative to managing Osteoarthritis;. One candidate is Rubus idaeus leaf extracts known to inhibit infammatory responses.This study aimed to evaluate the efects of a 12-weeks intervention with an ethanolic extract from Rubus idaeus leaf on symptoms of knee osteoarthritis. The study was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, monocentric trial of 198 participants with femorotibial osteoarthritis. Participants were randomized equally to receive one daily during 3 months either 1 capsule of Rubus idaeus leaf extract 400 mg, 1 capsule of Rubus idaeus leaf extract 200 mg, or 1 capsule of placebo. The participants were assessed at baseline and after one and three months of treatment. The primary endpoint was an absolute change of the Western Ontario McMaster osteoarthritis index (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index) pain subscale. The secondary endpoints were Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index global score, stifness and function sub-scales, knee pain Visual analogue scale; score at walking, the Short Form (Social functioning;)-36, the Short Physical Performance Battery (Short Physical Performance Battery;), the 20-m walk test, and the International Physical Activ‑ ity Quartiles;uestionnaire (International Physical Activity Quartiles;uestionnaire;) and Outcome Measures in Rheumatology Clinical Trials and Osteoarthritis Research Society International (OMEndoplasmic reticulum;heumatoid arthritis;Computed tomography;-Osteoarthritis;RSI) responders rate. Statistical analyses were conducted on the intent-to-treat (Intent-To-Treat;) population. In the Intention-to-treat population, Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index pain was not signifcantly modifed by Rubus idaeus leaf extract compared to placebo. In contrast, Rubus idaeus leaf extract 400 mg after 12 weeks of treatment signifcantly reduced pain measured by the Visual analogue scale;. The mean pain decrease induced by Rubus ideaus leaf extract was over -7 mm which is clinically relevant and reached a clinically statistical diference compared to placebo with the highest dose. Rubus Ideaus was not signifcantly more efcient than the placebo on Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index global score, stifness, and physical function subscores, International Physical Activity Quartiles;uestionnaire;, Social functioning;-36, walking distance in treadmill test, Short Physical Performance Battery;, and evaluation of associated treatments needed to manage Osteoarthritis;. Rubus idaeus leaf extract was well tolerated and efective to relieve pain in a patient with knee osteoarthritis.