The knee osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) is a joint disease characterized by degradation of articular cartilage that leads to chronic infammation. Exercise programs and photobiomodulation (Photobiomodulation;) are capable of modulating the infammatory process of minimizing functional disability related to knee Osteoarthritis;. However, their association on the concentration of biomarkers related to Osteoarthritis; development has not been studied yet. The aim of the present study is to investigate the efects of Photobiomodulation; (via cluster) with a physical exercise program in functional capacity, serum infammatory and cartilage degradation biomarkers in patients with knee Osteoarthritis;. Forty-two patients were randomly allocated in 3 groups: Exercise sham photobiomodulation group;: exercise+sham Photobiomodulation;; Exercise active photobiomodulation group;: exercise+Photobiomodulation; and Control group;: control group. Six patients were excluded before fnished the experimental period. The analyzed outcomes in baseline and 8-week were: the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;) and the evaluation of serum biomarkers concentration (Interleukin-1β;, Interleukin-6;, IL-8, IL-10 e Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha;, and C-telopeptide of type II collagen;). An increase in the functional capacity was observed in the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; total score for both treated groups (p<0.001) and Exercise sham photobiomodulation group; presents a lower value compared to Control group; (p<0.05) the 8-week post-treatment. In addition, there was a signifcant increase in IL-10 concentration of Exercise active photobiomodulation group; (p<0.05) and higher value compared to Control group; (p<0.001) the 8-week post-treatment. Moreover, an increase in Interleukin-1β; concentration was observed for Control group; (p<0.05). No other diference was observed comparing the other groups. Our data suggest that the physical exercise therapy could be a strategy for increasing functional capacity and in association with Photobiomodulation; for increasing IL-10 levels in Osteoarthritis; knee individuals. Trial registration: ReBEC (RBR-7t6nzr).