There is paucity in the current literature regarding clinical outcomes of autologous cell-free serum preparations. The objective of this paper is to collate the clinical evidence and review the results of intraarticular injections of autologous cell-free serum preparations in the management of knee osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;).A comprehensive English literature search was undertaken using the healthcare database website (https://hdas.nice.org.uk/). The PubMed, Medline, Confidence interval;NAHL, Embase and the Cochrane library databases were searched to identify all studies of autologous protein solution/autologous conditioned serum (Autologous conditioned serum;/Autologous protein solution;) in the management of knee Osteoarthritis;. We evaluated the reported clinical outcomes with respect to pain, function, morbidity, adverse effects and complications. Fifteen relevant articles were identified in the current literature. Outcomes following injection of Autologous conditioned serum;/Autologous protein solution; have been reported in patients with age range (34–87 years) and unilateral or bilateral knee Osteoarthritis;. Seven studies reported improvement in visual analog scale (Visualanalogue scale;) whereas the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;) score improved in nine studies. Considerable variation was noted in the injection technique and duration of post-procedure assessment with only one study reporting long-term follow-up beyond 24 months. Joint swelling and injection-site pain were reported to be the most common complications; only one study reported a case of septic arthritis. However, no evidence is available to clearly identify factors that may predict the outcomes following this procedure. Current data from the clinical studies would suggest that the intraarticular administration of autologous cell-free serum preparations, such as Autologous conditioned serum;/Autologous protein solution;, in patients with knee Osteoarthritis; may improve pain and function, with limited morbidity. High-quality clinical trials with stratified patient cohorts, longer follow-up duration and robust reporting of outcome measures are essential to improve the understanding of the indications and clinical effectiveness of these novel products.