To examine the association of current and childhood socioeconomic status (Standard error;S) with patient-reported functional status, quality of life and disability in patients with knee or hip osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;). Cross-sectional study amongst individuals seeking care for any medical reason in a primary care familypractice clinic in Mexico City. We included individuals with self-reported doctor-diagnosed arthritis, recruited through waiting-room posters and invitations by treating family physicians. We administered a survey using validated Spanish language versions of the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index), the Oste‑ oarthritis of Lower Limbs and Quartiles;uality of Life (AMultiple Imputation;CAL), and the Stanford Health Assessment Quartiles;uestionnaire-Disability Index (Hyaluronic acid;Quartiles;-DI). To estimate current and childhood Standard error;S, we collected data on education level and occupation type for both the patient and their parents, as well as using a validated tool to estimate income quintile. We recruited 154 patients and excluded 8 patients. There was a high correlation between outcome scores. Estimated income and education levels were correlated with Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index, AMultiple Imputation;CAL and Hyaluronic acid;Quartiles;-DI scores, and signifcant diferences were found in all scores by occupation type. The associations for current Standard error;S variables and outcome scores remained signifcant independently of age, sex, body mass index;, and presence of diabetes or hypertension, and were largely explained by current income in mutually adjusted models. Childhood Standard error;S – in particular as measured through mater‑ nal education – was best correlated with AMultiple Imputation;CAL scores, though its efect seemed largely mediated by its association with current Standard error;S. Current Socioeconomic Status impacts functional status, quality of life and disability amongst Osteoarthritis; patients in Mexico City. The Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index, AMultiple Imputation;CAL and Hyaluronic acid;Quartiles;-DI scores correlate with each other and are all potentially use‑ ful markers of disease severity. More research is needed to elucidate the relationships between childhood Standard error;S and Osteoarthritis; outcomes. Awareness of life-course Standard error;S may be useful in identifying patients at risk for worse outcomes.