Inflammation is a common pathological phenomenon of osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;). Accumulated evidence indicates that ameliorating or suppressing inflammation might be a promising and effective therapeutic strategy for the treatment of Osteoarthritis;. Notably, glucagon-like peptide-1 (Glucagon-like peptide-1;)-based drugs are being successfully used to control glucose levels in patients with diabetes mellitus. In addition, recent findings have indicated that Glucagon-like peptide-1; agonists, such as liraglutide have therapeutic potential in preventing inflammation-related disorders through the regulation of protein kinase A (Protein kinase A;)/ cyclic adenosine monophosphate (Cyclic adenosine monophosphate;) response element-binding protein (Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B) signals. Intra-articular injection of monoiodoacetate (Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;) has been widely used to induce Osteoarthritis;. Thus, the present study aimed to investigate whether liraglutide has anti-inflammatory effects on Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;-induced Osteoarthritis; rats and uncover its underlying molecular mechanisms. Intra-articular injection of Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; was used to induce knee Osteoarthritis; in a rat model. Subcutaneous injection of liraglutide was used to upregulate the expression of Glucagon-like peptide-1; receptor (Glucagon-like peptide-1;R). Western blot analysis was utilized to measure the expression of Glucagon-like peptide-1;R, Protein kinase A;/Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B pathway components and inflammation-related proteins, such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha (Tissue Necrosis Factor-alpha), interleukin-1 beta (interleukin;-1β), and interleukin;-6. Immunoprecipitation techniques were used to detect the interactions between Glucagon-like peptide-1;R and the Protein kinase A;/Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B pathway.The levels of Glucagon-like peptide-1;R decreased significantly in the knees of Osteoarthritis; rats, accompanied by the downregulation of Protein kinase A; /Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B signals and upregulation of inflammation-related proteins. We also found that Glucagon-like peptide-1;R interacted with the Protein kinase A;/Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B pathway and that liraglutide could activate Protein kinase A;/Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B signals, thereby inhibiting the expression of inflammation-related proteins.Together our results suggest that liraglutide exhibits anti-inflammatory activity through the activation of the Protein kinase A;/Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B pathway in an Osteoarthritis; rat model.