New minimally invasive treatments are vital to delay joint replacement surgery in patients with knee osteoarthritis. This study was designed to select the most efective among three formulations of an enhanced protein solution containing clonidine, hyaluronic acid, and human plasma (enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine;), and compare the safety and efcacy of intra-articular administration of the selected formulation with a reference treatment (hyaluronic acid) in symptomatic knee osteoarthritis patients. In this two-stage, double-blind, phase II/III study conducted in 12 Belgian centers, 50–79-year-old patients with primary knee osteoarthritis were randomized (1:1:1:1) to receive one dose of one of three enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; formulations (difering in clonidine concentration  and volume ) or the reference treatment (hylan G-F 20). Patients were evaluated using Western Ontario McMaster Universities (Western Ontario McMaster Universities.®) Scores and the Short-Form health survey up to 6months post-injection (Month 6). Drug consumption and safety were evaluated.Among 164 treated patients, 147 completed the study. The enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; formulation containing 200μg cloni‑ dine and 20mg hyaluronic acid in 2ml (JTA-200/2) was selected based on interim results at Month 6. The diference in adjusted mean change in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Pain Subscale Score from baseline (JTA-200/2 minus reference group) at Month 6 was −9.49mm; statistical superiority of JTA-200/2 over the reference was not demonstrated. No statistically signif‑ cant diferences in adjusted mean changes from baseline between JTA-200/2 and reference groups were observed for Pain, Physical Function and Stifness Subscales Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Scores, Total Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Score, and Well-being Score at any timepoint, although JTA-200/2 induced larger improvements in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Scores than the reference. Statistically signifcantly larger improvements in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Pain Subscale Scores for enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; versus the reference were observed in post-hoc analyses on pooled data from all enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; formulations at Month 6 (p=0.030) and Month 3 (p=0.014). All enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; formulations had clinically acceptable safety profles. This study provided preliminary evidence of the safety of intra-articular injection of enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; in knee osteoarthritis patients. Phase III randomized controlled trials with larger sample sizes are needed to evaluate the ef‑ cacy of enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; in knee osteoarthritis.