While serum levels of hyarulonic acid (sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range;) is known to be useful for a burden of disease biomarker in knee Osteoarthritis;, it is far from practical. The reference intervals must be established for biomarkers to be useful for clinical interpretation. The aim of this study was to establish the reference intervals of sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; corresponding to the radiographic severity of knee Osteoarthritis; for elucidating whether sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; can be useful as a burden of disease marker for individual patient with knee Osteoarthritis;. 372 women with Kellgren & Lawrence grade (Kellegren and Laurence;) 1 through 4 painful knee Osteoarthritis; were enrolled in this study. The patients included 54 with Kellegren and Laurence; 1, 96 with Kellegren and Laurence; 2, 97 with Kellegren and Laurence; 3, and 118 with Kellegren and Laurence; 4. Serum samples were obtained from all subjects on the day that radiographs taken. A Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; binding protein based latex agglutination assay that employed an ELISA format was used to measure sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range;. Age and Body mass index; adjusted one way Adjusted one way analysis of variance; was used to set the reference intervals of sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range;. The reference intervals for sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; corresponding to the patients with Kellegren and Laurence; 4 (49.6 – 66.5 ng/ml) was established without any overlap against to those with Kellegren and Laurence; 1, 2 and 3, while those with Kellegren and Laurence; 1, 2 and 3 showed considerable overlap. These results indicate that sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; can be available as a burden of disease marker for the individuals with severe knee Osteoarthritis; (Kellegren and Laurence; 4), while it is not for those with primary to moderate knee Osteoarthritis; (Kellegren and Laurence; 1–3).