Knee osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) is a debilitating condition afecting human body biomechanics and quality of life. Current standard care for knee Osteoarthritis; leads to trivial improvement and entails multiple adverse efects or compli‑ cations. Recently, investigational cell therapies injected intra-articularly, such as bone marrow aspirate concentrate (Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular;) and platelet-rich plasma (PRole-physical;), have shown safety and therapeutic potency providing patients with pain relief. In the current retrospective comparative study, we investigated the diferences in pain and functional improvements in patients with symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis; receiving intra-articular injections of Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular; vs PRole-physical;. Pain and functionality scores were measured at baseline and at diferent time points post-injection over 12months, using 3 self-administered, clinically validated questionnaires: the visual analogue scale (Visual analog score;) for assessing pain intensity, the knee injury and osteoarthritis outcome score (Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score;) for evaluating functionality and knee-related quality of life, and the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index (Western Ontario McMaster Universities.) for evaluating physical function. The repeated-measures general linear model with Sidak test for pairwise comparisons was used to investi‑ gate the infuence of the treatment on the score evolution within groups (between baseline and each time point) and between groups (overall).The Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular; group (n=26 knees) signifcantly improved in Visual analog score;, Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score;, and Western Ontario McMaster Universities. scores between baseline and 12months (57.4, 75.88, and 73.95% mean score improvement, respectively). In contrast, the PRole-physical; group (n=13 knees) witnessed nonsignifcant improvement in all scores. Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular;, in comparison to PRole-physical;, induced signifcant improve‑ ment in outcomes by 29.38% on the Visual analog score; scale, 53.89% on the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; scale, and 51.71% on the Western Ontario McMaster Universities. scale (P<.002, P<.01, P<.011, respectively).Intra-articular autologous Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular; injections are safe, efective in treating pain, and ameliorate function‑ ality in patients with symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis; to a greater extent than PRole-physical; injections.