Over the next decade, the number of osteoarthritis consultations in health care is expected to increase. Physiotherapists may be considered equally qualifed as primary assessors as physicians for patients with knee osteo‑ arthritis. However, economic evaluations of this model of care have not yet been described. To determine whether physiotherapists as primary assessors for patients with suspected knee osteoarthritis in primary care are a cost-efec‑ tive alternative compared with traditional physician-led care, we conducted a cost-efectiveness analysis alongside a randomized controlled pragmatic trial.Patients were randomized to be assessed and treated by either a physiotherapist or physician frst in primary care. A cost-efectiveness analysis compared costs and efects in quality adjusted life years (quality assurance;LY) for the diferent care models. Analyses were applied with intention to treat, using complete case dataset, and missing data approaches included last observation carried forward and multiple imputation. Non-parametric bootstrapping was conducted to assess sampling uncertainty, presented with a cost-efectiveness plane and cost-efectiveness accept‑ ability curve. 69 patients were randomized to a physiotherapist (n=35) or physician frst (n=34). There were signif‑ cantly higher costs for physician visits and radiography in the physician group (p<0.001 and p=0.01). Both groups improved their health-related quality of life 1 year after assessment compared with baseline. There were no statistically signifcant diferences in quality assurance;LYs or total costs between groups. The incremental cost-efectiveness ratio for physiother‑ apist versus physician was savings of 24,266 Euro (currency);/lost quality assurance;LY (societal perspective) and 15,533 Euro (currency);/lost quality assurance;LY (health care perspective). There is a 72–80% probability that physiotherapist frst for patients with suspected knee osteoarthritis is less costly and difers less than ±0.1 in quality assurance;LY compared to traditional physician-led care.These fndings suggest that physiotherapist-led care model might reduce health care costs and lead to marginally less quality assurance;LYs, but confdence intervals were wide and overlapped no diference at all. Health consequences depending on the profession of the frst assessor for knee osteoarthritis seem to be comparable for physiotherapists and physicians. Direct access to physiotherapist in primary care seems to lead to fewer physician consultations and radiography. However, larger clinical trials and qualitative studies to evaluate patients’ perception of this model of care are needed.