Quadriceps training is necessary in function and activity of daily living for patients with knee osteoar‑ thritis (KOsteoarthritis;). However, it did not reduce the rate of surgical treatment for end-stage KOsteoarthritis; in the long term. This may be related to brain structure changes and maladaptive plasticity in KOsteoarthritis; patients. Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (Traditional moxibustion;S) could enhance the functional connectivity of brain regions and improves maladaptive plasticity. However, the synergistic efect of the combination of the two for treat KOsteoarthritis; is still unclear. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to investigate whether the High-Frequency Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation combined with quadriceps strength training can improve the pain and function in KOsteoarthritis; more efectively than quadriceps training alone and explore the mechanism of action. This study is an assessor-blind, sham-controlled, randomized controlled trial involving 12 weeks of inter‑ vention and 6 months follow-up. 148 participants with KOsteoarthritis; will receive usual care management and be rand‑ omized into four subgroups equally, including quadriceps strength training, high-frequency Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation training, sham Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation and quadriceps strength training, high-frequency Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation and quadriceps strength training. The rehabilitation interventions will be carried out 5 days per week for a total of 12 weeks. All outcomes will be measured at baseline, 4 weeks, 8 weeks, and 12 weeks during the intervention and 1 month, 3 months and 6 months during the follow-up period. The efectiveness outcomes will be included visual analog scale, isokinetic knee muscle strength, Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome score and 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey score; The act mechanism outcomes will be included motor evoked potential, grey matter density, white matter, subcortical nuclei volumes, cortical thick‑ ness and functional connectivity by Magnetic resonance imaging;. Two-way of variance with repeated measures will be used to test the group and time efect for outcome measures. The study will be the frst protocol to examine whether there are synergistic efects following high-fre‑ quency Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation combined with quadriceps strength training for treat KOsteoarthritis; and clarify the mechanism of action. Highfrequency Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation can be added into the training program for KOsteoarthritis; patients if it is proven efective.