Knee osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) is a leading cause of global disability. The understanding of the role of psycho‑ social factors in knee Osteoarthritis; outcomes is still evolving particularly in an Asian context. The primary aim of this study is to explore psychosocial factors that prognosticate short and long-term clinical outcomes, productivity, and healthcare utilization in patients with knee Osteoarthritis;. Secondary aims are to explore the mediation and directional relationships and the role it plays in predicting the discordance between self-reported measures (SRepetition maximum.), physical-performance measures (Physical-performance measuress) and objective clinical parameters. A multi-centre prospective cohort study of community ambulant knee Osteoarthritis; patients seeking treatment in the tertiary healthcare institutions in Singapore will be conducted. Patients with secondary arthritis, signifcant cognitive impairment, severe medical comorbidities or previous knee arthroplasty will be excluded. Primary clinical outcome measure is the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis; Outcome Score-12 (Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score;-12). Baseline characteristics include sociode‑ mographic status, arthritis status including symptom duration and radiographic severity, comorbidities and functional status through Charlson Comorbidities Index (CConfidence interval;), Barthel Index (Barthel Index) and Parker Mobility Score (Parker Mobility Score). Psychosocial variables include social support, kinesiophobia, negative afect, self-efcacy, injustice, chronic illness shame and the built environment. Clinical outcomes include quality of life, physical performance, global assessment, satisfaction and physical activity levels. Productivity and healthcare utilization will be assessed by a modifed Osteoarthritis; Cost and Conse‑ quences Questionnaire (OA Cost and Consequences Questionnaire) and the Work Productivity and Activity Impairment Questionnaire (Work Productivity and Activity Impairment Questionnaire). Variables will be collected at baseline, 4, 12 months and yearly thereafter. Regression, mediation and structural equation model‑ ling will be used for analysis. Results will allow contextualization, identifcation, and phenotyping of the critical (and potentially modi‑ fable) psychosocial parameters that predict positive clinical outcomes in the Osteoarthritis; population to guide optimization and refnement of healthcare and community. This will facilitate: 1. identifcation of high-risk knee Osteoarthritis; subpopulations that will likely experience poor outcomes and 2. formulation of targeted multidisciplinary comprehensive approaches to address these psychosocial factors to optimize non-surgical treatment care, maximize functional outcomes and create more value-based care model for knee Osteoarthritis;.