Knee osteoarthritis has an infammatory component that is linked to pain and joint pathology, yet common non-surgical and non-pharmacological interventions (e.g., exercise, calorie restricting diets) do not typically target infammation. We aimed to evaluate the feasibility of a telehealth delivered anti-infammatory diet intervention for knee osteoarthritis. This 9-week single-arm feasibility study recruited participants aged 40–85 years with symptomatic knee osteoarthritis (inclusion criteria: average pain ≥4/10 or maximal pain ≥5/10 during past week). All participants received a telehealth-delivered anti-infammatory dietary education intervention involving 1:1 consultations at baseline, 3- and 6-week follow-up. The diet emphasised nutrient-dense wholefoods and minimally processed antiinfammatory foods and discouraged processed foods considered to be pro-infammatory. The primary outcome of feasibility was assessed via: i) eligibility, recruitment and retention rates; ii) self-reported dietary adherence; iii) adverse events; and iv) treatment satisfaction. Post-intervention interviews evaluated the acceptability of the dietary intervention delivered via telehealth. Secondary outcomes included changes in self-reported body mass, Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score;), health-related quality of life (EuroQuality of life;-5D), analgesic use and global rating of change. Worthwhile efects were determined by the minimal detectable change (Minimal detectable change) for all fve Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score;-subscales (pain, symptoms, activities of daily living, sport/recreation, quality of life) being contained within the 95% confdence interval. Forty-eight of seventy-three (66%) individuals screened were eligible and 28 enrolled over 2months (82% female, mean age 66±8 years, body mass index 30.7±4.8 kg.m−2 ). Six participants withdrew prior to fnal follow-up (21% drop-out). Of those with fnal follow-up data, attendance at scheduled telehealth consultations was 99%. Selfreported adherence to diet during the 9-week intervention period: everyday=27%, most of time=68% and some of time=5%. Two minor adverse events were reported. Change scores contained the Minimal detectable change within the 95% confdence interval for all fve Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; subscales. Suggestions to improve study design and limit drop-out included an initial faceto-face consultation and more comprehensive habitual dietary intake data collection. This study supports the feasibility of a full-scale randomised controlled trial to determine the efcacy of a primarily telehealth-delivered anti-infammatory dietary education intervention in adults with symptomatic knee osteoarthritis.