Gait retraining is a common therapeutic intervention that can alter gait characteristics to reduce knee loading in knee osteoarthritis populations. It can be enhanced when combined with biofeedback that provides realtime information about the users’ gait, either directly (i.e. knee moment feedback) or indirectly (i.e. gait pattern feedback). However, it is unknown which types of biofeedback are more efective at reducing knee loading, and also how the changes in gait afect pain during diferent activities of daily living. Therefore, this study aims to evaluate the acute (6 weeks of training) and chronic (1 month post training) efects of biofeedback based on personalised gait patterns to reduce knee loading and pain in people with knee osteoarthritis, as well as examine if more than one session of knee moment feedback is needed to optimise the gait patterns. This is a parallel group, randomised controlled trial in a symptomatic knee osteoarthritis population in which participants will be randomised into either a knee moment biofeedback group (n=20), a gait pattern biofeedback group (n=20) or a control group (n=10). Supervised training sessions will be carried out weekly for six continuous weeks, with real-time biofeedback provided using marker-based motion capture and an instrumented treadmill. Baseline, post-intervention and 1-month follow-up assessments will be performed to measure knee loading parameters, gait pattern parameters, muscle activation, knee pain and functional ability. This study will identify the optimal gait patterns for participants’ gait retraining and compare the efectiveness of gait pattern biofeedback to a control group in reducing knee loading and index knee pain. Additionally, this study will explore how many sessions are needed to identify the optimal gait pattern with knee moment feedback. Results will be disseminated in future peer-reviewed journal articles, conference presentations and internet media to a wide audience of clinicians, physiotherapists, researchers and individuals with knee osteoarthritis.