Arthritis is a leading cause of disability in the United States. Total knee arthroplasty (Total knee arthroplasty) has become the gold standard to manage the pain and disability associated with knee osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;). Although more than 400 000 primary Total knee arthroplasty surgeries are performed each year in the United States, not all individuals with knee Osteoarthritis; elect to undergo the procedure. No clear consensus exists on criteria to determine who should undergo Total knee arthroplasty. The purpose of this study was to determine which clinical factors will predict the decision to undergo Total knee arthroplasty in individuals with end-stage knee Osteoarthritis;. Knowledge of these factors will aid in clinical decision making for the timing of Total knee arthroplasty. Functional data from one hundred twenty persons with end-stage knee Osteoarthritis; were obtained through a database. All of the individuals complained of knee pain during daily activities and had radiographic evidence of Osteoarthritis;. Functional and clinical tests, collectively referred to as the Delaware Osteoarthritis Profile, were completed by a physical therapist. This profile consisted of measuring height, weight, quadriceps strength and active knee range of motion, while functional mobility was assessed using the Timed Up and Go (TUG) test and the Stair Climbing Task (SCT). Selfperceived functional ability was measured using the activities of daily living subscale of the Knee Outcome Survey (KOS-Activities of daily living;east squares;). A logistic regression model was used to identify variables predictive of Total knee arthroplasty use. Forty subjects (33%) underwent Total knee arthroplasty within two years of evaluation. These subjects were significantly older and had significantly slower TUG and SCT times (p < 0.05). Persons that underwent Total knee arthroplasty were also significantly weaker, had lower self-reported function and had less knee extension than persons who did not undergo Total knee arthroplasty. No differences between groups were seen for Body mass index;, gender, knee flexion Range of motion; and unilateral versus bilateral joint disease. Using backward regression, age, knee extension Range of motion; and KOS-Activities of daily living;east squares; together significantly predicted whether or not a person would undergo Total knee arthroplasty (p ≤ 0.001, R2 = 0.403). Younger patients with full knee Range of motion; who have a higher self-perception of function are less likely to undergo Total knee arthroplasty. Physicians and clinicians should be aware that potentially modifiable factors, such as knee Range of motion; can be addressed to potentially postpone the need for Total knee arthroplasty.