Physical activity improves pain and function among individuals with knee osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;), but most people with this condition are inactive. Physical therapists play a key role in helping people with knee Osteoarthritis; to increase appropriate physical activity. However, health care access issues, financial constraints, and other factors impede some patients from receiving physical therapy (Physical Therapy;) for knee Osteoarthritis;. A need exists to develop and evaluate other methods to provide physical activity instruction and support to people with knee Osteoarthritis;. This study is examining the effectiveness of an internet-based exercise training (Internet-based Exercise Training;) program designed for knee Osteoarthritis;, designed by physical therapists and other clinicians. This is a randomized controlled trial of 350 participants with symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis;, allocated to three groups: Internet-based Exercise Training;, standard Physical Therapy;, and a wait list (Wait List;) control group (in a 2:2:1 ratio, respectively). The study was funded by the Patient Centered Outcomes Research Institute, which conducted a peer review of the proposal. The Internet-based Exercise Training; program provides patients with a tailored exercise program (based on functional level, symptoms, and current activity), video demonstrations of exercises, and guidance for appropriate exercise progression. The Physical Therapy; group receives up to 8 individual visits with a physical therapist, mirroring standard practice for knee Osteoarthritis; and with an emphasis on a home exercise program. Outcomes are assessed at baseline, 4 months (primary time point) and 12 months (to assess maintenance of treatment effects). The primary outcome is the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index, and secondary outcomes include objective physical function, satisfaction with physical function, physical activity, depressive symptoms and global assessment of change. Linear mixed models will be used to compare both the Internet-based Exercise Training; and standard Physical Therapy; groups to the Wait List; control group, examine whether Internet-based Exercise Training; is non-inferior to Physical Therapy; (a treatment that has an established evidence base for knee Osteoarthritis;), and explore whether participant characteristics are associated with differential effects of Internet-based Exercise Training; and/or standard Physical Therapy;. This research is in compliance with the Helsinki Declaration and was approved by the Institutional Review Board of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. The Internet-based Exercise Training; program could be disseminated widely at relatively low cost and could be an important resource for helping patients with knee Osteoarthritis; to adopt and maintain appropriate physical activity. This trial will provide an important evaluation of the effectiveness of this Internet-based Exercise Training; program for knee Osteoarthritis;.