Knee osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) is a multifactorial form of rheumatic condition contributing to physical and psychological factors. Treatments have been provided solely and often compared with each other. An alternative view is that combined treatments addressing physical and psychological factors may result in more benefts. This study aimed to investigate the efect of pain neuroscience education (Pain neuroscience education) followed by Pilates exercises (Pilates exercises) in participants with knee Osteoarthritis;, compared to PE alone. In this two-arm assessor-blind pilot randomized controlled trial, ffty-four community-dwelling adults with knee Osteoarthritis; were randomly assigned to the Pain neuroscience education followed by Pilates exercises and Pilates exercises groups (27 in each group). The study was conducted between early July 2021 and early March 2022 at the university’s health center. Primary outcomes were Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;) subscales of pain and physical limitation and secondary outcomes were Pain Catastrophizing Scale, Tampa Scale for Kinesiophobia, Pain Self-Efcacy Questionnaire, and Timed "Up & Go" test covering function. The primary and secondary outcomes were measured at baseline and eight weeks post-treatment. A general linear mixed model was used for between-group comparison with a statistical signifcance level of 0.05. Signifcant within-group diferences were observed in all outcomes in both groups at post-treatment. There were no statistically between-group diferences in pain (adjusted mean diference: -0.8; 95% Confidence interval; -2.2 to 0.7; p=0.288), physical limitation (adjusted mean diference: -0.4; 95% Confidence interval; -4 to 3.1; p=0.812) and function (adjusted mean diference: -0.8; 95% Confidence interval; -1.8 to 0.1; p=0.069) at eight weeks. For pain catastrophizing (adjusted mean diference: -3.9; 95% Confidence interval; -7.2 to -0.6; p=0.021), kinesiophobia (adjusted mean diference: -4.2; 95% Confidence interval; -8.1 to -0.4; p=0.032), and self-efcacy (adjusted mean diference: 6.1; 95% Confidence interval; 0.7 to 11.5; p=0.028) statistically between-group improvements were observed favoring Pain neuroscience education followed by Pilates exercises group after the treatment. Combining Pain neuroscience education with Pilates exercises could have superior efects on psychological characteristics but not on pain, physical limitation, and function, compared to Pilates exercises alone. This pilot study emphasizes the need to investigate the combined efects of diferent interventions.