Diclofenac etalhyaluronate (Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid;) is a recently developed analgesic conjugate of diclofenac and hyaluronic acid that has analgesic and anti-infammatory efects on acute arthritis. In this study, we investigated its analgesic efect on osteoarthritis, using a rat model of monoiodoacetate (Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;).We injected Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; into the right knees of eight 6-weeks-old male Sprague–Dawley rats. Four weeks later, rats were randomly injected with Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; or vehicle into the right knee. Seven weeks after the Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; injection, fuorogold (Fluorogold;) and sterile saline were injected into the right knees of all the rats. We assessed hyperalgesia with weekly von Frey tests for 8 weeks after Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; administration. We took the right knee computed tomography (Computed tomography;) as radiographi‑ cal evaluation every 2 weeks. All rats were sacrifced 8 weeks after administration of Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; for histological evaluation of the right knee and immunohistochemical evaluation of the Dorsal root ganglion; and spinal cord. We also evaluated the number of Fluorogold;-labeled calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRole-physical;)-immunoreactive(ir) neurons in the dorsal root ganglion (Dorsal root ganglion;) and ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1 (Ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1;)-ir microglia in the spinal cord. Administration of Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; signifcantly improved pain sensitivity and reduced CGRole-physical; and Ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1; expression in the Dorsal root ganglion; and spinal cord, respectively. However, computed tomography and histological evaluation of the right knee showed similar levels of joint deformity, despite Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; administration. Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; exerted analgesic efects on osteoarthritic pain, but did not afect joint deformity