Generally, knee osteoarthritis (KOsteoarthritis;) is the most common cause of knee pain and dysfunction in the elderly. Osteoarthritis usually afects the medial compartment of the knee joint, which is related to misalignment. Currently, most research has focused on the treatment of pain relief and prevention of decline in function . Autologous platelet-rich plasma (PRole-physical;) is a safe autologous blood product containing high levels of growth factors and cytokines with potential to alter biological processes implicated in Osteoarthritis; pathogenesis and symptoms . In addition, several studies have reported that compared with non-steroidal anti-infammatory drugs (Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory Drug;s), steroid and hyaluronic acid, PRole-physical; has favorable pain and function outcomes,  suggesting the potential benefts of PRole-physical; in treating KOsteoarthritis;. Some alternative physical therapy, such as low-level laser therapy, needs to be further confrmed for efcacy in KOsteoarthritis; patients . Recent systematic reviews concluded that platelet dysfunction might have an impact on the efcacy of PRole-physical; . For certain patients with hematological diseases (e.g. immune thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia, systemic lupus erythematosus, etc.) and patients receiving anti-platelet medications, autologous PRole-physical; is not an optimum solution. Allogeneic platelet-rich plasma has been shown to be safe and efective in treating osteoarthritis, rotator cuf dysfunction, refractory wounds, and other medical felds . Given the clinical efect on pain reduction in osteoarthritis and a good safety profle, allogeneic PRole-physical; is a promising nonsurgical therapy for knee Osteoarthritis; combined with hematologic blood dyscrasias with platelet dysfunction. However, clinical trials of efcacy to date have been limited by a high risk of bias in allogeneic PRole-physical; trials. Although the results show that allogeneic PRole-physical; is safe and can relieve pain and recover articular function, the trials lack adequate blinding and control group suggesting the results are not convincing . Well-designed and long-term follow-up prospective randomized controlled trials (Randomised controlled trial;s) have not yet been performed. Te aim of this study is to evaluate the safety and efcacy of intra-articular injection of allogeneic PRole-physical; from blood donors in patients with knee osteoarthritis combined with hematologic blood dyscrasias with platelet dysfunction. (e.g. immune thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia, etc.) Our hypothesis is that there is a clinically relevant diference in the primary and secondary outcomes between the two treatment groups. Te minimal clinically important diferences of patient reported outcomes will be considered in this study Te allogeneic PRole-physical; injection for knee Osteoarthritis; study is a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial design. Tis study protocol follows the recommendations of the Standard Protocol Items: Recommendations for Interventional Trials; Statement (supplement 1)  for clinical trial protocols elaboration and is reported according to the Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials; Statement (supplement 2) . Te trial will be conducted at Te First Afliated Hospital of Soochow University, which is one of the three national clinical research centers for hematologic disease in China. Te primary endpoint for the analysis of outcomes is 12months after baseline assessment. Te trial is registered at the Chinese Clinical Trial Registry with a number of ChiComputed tomography;R2100048624 and follows the World Health Organization’s guidelines. We will recruit 100 participants with painful knee Osteoarthritis; combined with hematologic blood dyscrasias with platelet dysfunction from outpatient department. Participants are eligible for the study if they meet all inclusion criteria below: i. age between 18 and 80 years ii. unilateral symptomatic knee with history of chronic pain (at least 4months) or swelling iii. hematologic blood dyscrasias with platelet dysfunction iv. limitation of daily activities v. radiographic imaging fndings of knee osteoarthritis (Kellgren and Lawrence grade 1–3) Te exclusion criteria are as follows: i. systemic cardiovascular or neurologic disorders, diabetes septicemia or fever ii. cutaneous infections in the area to be injected iii. had injection into the target knee joint of glucocorticoid in the past 3months or hyaluronic acid in the past 6months iv. use of nonsteroidal anti-infammatory drugs (Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory Drug;s) within 5days before treatment v. previous knee surgery vi. have systemic or infammatory joint disease such as rheumatoid arthritis vii. have other muscular or joint afecting lower limb function Figure 1 and Table 1 outline the trial phases and the schedule for enrollment, screening, interventions and assessments. Participants will complete an onsite survey in the outpatient department to determine initial qualifcations, and then a coordinating researcher will screen through a questionnaire. Participants deemed appropriate from the questionnaire screening will be allowed to undergo conventional radiographs (weight-bearing long-leg, A/P and lateral views) and blood screening. Te screening will be performed in the outpatient department, where two experienced physicians evaluated patients’ eligibility for enrollment in this study through history taking, imaging examination, and laboratory tests. Tese steps could diminish possible bias about the inclusion criteria of age range. Participants who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria will then be deemed suitable for the study. Eligible participants will complete the baseline clinical outcome scores, paper-based questionnaires and baseline knee magnetic resonance imaging; scans. Participants will also be asked to discontinue non-steroidal anti-infammatory drugs and other analgesics for knee pain from 3weeks before the baseline assessment until the 12-month follow-up assessment. Paper-based clinical outcome scores will be distributed to participants at 1-, 3-, 6-, and 12-month to complete primary and secondary outcomes at the outpatient department. Knee magnetic resonance imaging; scans will be conducted at 12-month at the radiology center of the First Afliated Hospital of Soochow University. At the last followup, patients will be asked if they would like to receive allogeneic PRole-physical; injection again. Tis will be registered accordingly. Te trial will be monitored by the clinical research monitoring committee of the First Afliated Hospital of Soochow University. Te monitoring committee aims to improve the quality of clinical research and ultimately, patient care. Before the trial commenced, a monitoring plan was set up. Monitors will be required to verify that: 1. the conduct of the trial is compliant with the currently approved protocol and with applicable laws regulatory requirements, for example, WMO, GCP (China), ISO14155 and laws on clinical research in China; 2. the rights and privacy of patient subjects are protected; 3. Te research data is accurate, complete, and true. Monitoring will be performed at the initiation of the study until the results of the study are published. Randomization is centralized, and participants will be randomly allocated in a 1:1 ratio. An independent statistician will provide a computer-generated randomization list, using a permuted block design with block sizes of 4 and 6. Te sequence is concealed by the use of a computer interface implemented in the electronic case report form. Te patients, treating physicians and coordinating researchers will all be blinded to the allocation of the intervention. A study nurse will have access to the randomization result and the allocated intervention. Participants will not be told until the end of the study which group they were allocated to. Te study nurse will prepare the injection in a separate room and place an opaque label around the syringe and needle base to mask the contents. Te nurse will then give the syringe to the injecting treating physician who will not know or be able to tell whether the syringe has allogeneic PRole-physical; or saline. All clinical and magnetic resonance imaging; assessments will be conducted by two radiologists with over 10 years of clinical work experience. All evaluators are blinded to treatment allocation. Participants in both the allogeneic PRole-physical; and saline groups will receive one intra-articular knee injection at the same time after signing written informed consent (supplement 3), in line with commonly used injection protocols for this condition . Te study nurse will give the treating physician an occluded syringe with a needle containing 4ml of either normal saline or allogeneic PRole-physical;, and the contents will be injected into the knee joint. After the injection, passive knee fexion and extension will be performed six times with the participant observed resting for 20min thereafter. After injection, participants will be asked which group they believe they are in, and separately the injecting treating physician will also be asked which group they believe the participant is in to assess the success of blinding. Tis will be registered accordingly. Te study nurse will ask the participant if they experienced any adverse events following the injection.One healthy volunteer donor will donate about 300– 400ml (according to the defnite number of participants) of peripheral venous blood. To assess the safety of the allogeneic PRole-physical;, tests for hepatitis B, hepatitis C, human immunodefciency virus, and syphilis will be performed and confrmed before application. Every 8ml of venous blood for each participant (as recommended by the company) is drawn manually using butterfy safety locks and emptied into 10-ml standard tubes (Regenlab PRole-physical; Kit-RegenAmerican College of Rheumatology;®, Le Mont-sur-Lausanne, Switzerland) and are then put in RegenLab PRole-physical; Centrifuges. Te centrifugation settings are set at 1500g for 5minutes. After centrifugation, the blood is fractionated. By gently inverting the Regen BComputed tomography; tubes several times and process for resuspension of the cellular deposit in the supernatant, approximately 4ml of PRole-physical; will be obtained from each tube. Te PRole-physical; used for injection will not be activated before application. About 4ml of PRole-physical; will be injected for each patient in the PRole-physical; group. In addition, one tube of PRole-physical; will be sent to the laboratory for platelet and leukocyte counting, and growth factor (VEGF and TGF-β) analysis. Te whole process will be carried out by a study nurse in a separate room and the syringe and needle base will be placed an opaque label to mask the contents. Te study nurse will prepare a syringe with a saline solution (4 mL), attach a needle and place an opaque label around the syringe and needle base to mask the contents in a separate room. Te nurse will then deliver the syringe to the treating physician for injection. Study outcome measures are presented in Table 1. Te primary endpoint measure are 12-month change in knee pain and function scores. i. Knee pain and function score: this will be measured at baseline, 1-, 3-, 6- and 12-month using the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index) Osteoarthritis Index with terminal descriptors ‘mild Osteoarthritis; (score <32)’, ‘moderate Osteoarthritis; (score 32~48)’ and ‘severe Osteoarthritis; (score >48)’. Tis was chosen because it has well-established clinimetric properties in knee Osteoarthritis; and established minimal clinically important differences, and is a recommended measure for knee Osteoarthritis; Randomised controlled trial;s from the Osteoarthritis Research Society International . Te following secondary outcome measures will also be collected: i. Health-related quality of life: this will be measured at baseline, 1-, 3-, 6- and 12-month using the shortform 36-item health survey questionnaire (Social functioning;-36) instrument . Te Social functioning;-36 is divided into 8 felds, with higher scores indicating better quality of life. ii. Overall knee pain score during activities of daily living (using an 11-point Visual analogue scale;): this will be measured at baseline, 1-, 3-, 6- and 12-month. Te Visual analogue scale; is to indicate the degree of pain in a total of 11 numbers from 0 to 10; 0 means no pain and 10 means worst pain with high reliability. Te patient chooses a number to represent the degree of pain according to his pain. iii. Lysholm knee scoring scale: this will be measured at baseline, 1-, 3-, 6- and 12-month. Te Lysholm knee scale demonstrated overall acceptable psychometric performance for outcomes assessment of various chondral disorders of the knee. Tis makes up for the shortcomings of the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index score and established minimal clinically important diferences with high reliability . iv. magnetic resonance imaging;-derived measurements: an magnetic resonance imaging; scan of the target knee will be performed at baseline and 12-month using a 3T whole-body system with a suppressed Three-dimensional; gradient recall acquisition sequence. magnetic resonance imaging; osteoarthritis knee score (MOsteoarthritis;KS): an Osteoarthritis;-specifc semi-quantitative tool evaluating multi-feature joint changes associated with Osteoarthritis; . We will assess the following subscores: Meniscal morphology: any region worsening at 12-month; scored as yes or no. Intercondylar synovitis incorporating synovitis and efusion: worsening at 12-month; scored as yes or no. Whole knee efusion: categorized as worsened, no change, or improved. Progression of medial distal femur and proximal tibia bone marrow lesion size: scored as 0–3 per region, with higher scores indicating greater size. Cartilage defects: score in the medial distal femur and the proximal tibia at baseline and 12-month using categorical scoring (range 0–4 per region, with higher scores indicating greater cartilage defects). Progression of medial cartilage defects (yes/no) will be defned as an increase in score by at least 1 from baseline to follow-up in either the medial tibial or medial femoral compartment . Participants will be asked to avoid the use of non-steroidal anti-infammatory drugs and other analgesics for knee pain from 3weeks before the baseline assessment until the 12-month follow-up assessment. Troughout the trial, key treatment (exercise therapy and healthy lifestyle advice) and co-interventions used by patients will be registered, such as non-steroidal anti-infammatory drugs, other analgesic drugs, intra-articular injections or inlays. All adverse events are reported spontaneously by the patient or observed by the study nurse. Tis will include questions about any adverse events that participants believe may be related to the trial intervention, including their nature, how long they lasted for and what action if any, they took. To date, no serious adverse events have been reported in the literature concerning PRole-physical; intraarticular injections of the knee. Te local Medical Ethical Commission will be notifed of any serious adverse events. In the event this happens, the advice of the Medical Ethical Commission will be followed accordingly. Te coordinating researchers will attempt to reduce loss to follow-up as much as possible by contacting every patient and being present at every patient visit. Each patient will be assisted by a coordinating researcher to ensure that each paper-based questionnaire is flled in. If the patient is lost to follow-up, an analysis of demographic and prognostic characteristics will be performed on these cases and the remaining patients. Te patient eligible for and compliant with each follow-up will be documented. If the proportion of missing data exceeds 10%, missing outcome data will be imputed using multiple imputation methodology and the sensitivity of the missing at random assumption will be investigated . Te sample size calculation is based on the primary outcome measure, the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index score at 12-month. Based on previous studies,  a 11.5 points reduction in Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index total score was considered as the minimum diference to be detected between the groups with a standard deviation (Standard deviation;) of 16. Accepting a falsepositive rate of 5% (α=0.05) and a power of at least 90% (β=0.10), we determined a theoretical minimum sample size of 84 patients. Considering the estimated 15% dropout rate, a total of 50 patients per group were required. Patient recruitment will be terminated in both groups when the required minimum number of patients is attained. Paper-based questionnaires will be the primary data collection tools for the study. Te questionnaires will be completed at the outpatient clinic at baseline and each follow-up time point. On receipt of the questionnaire forms, the coordinating researchers will make a visual check of the responses and query missing data when possible. Te paper-based questionnaire will be securely kept by a study nurse. A study nurse, blinded to the group allocation, will store the forms into an electronic database by double data entry to minimise typing errors. Te coordinating researchers, blinded to the group allocation, will perform a visual check of the data in the electronic database and then query all missing, implausible and inconsistent data. Patient records in the participating hospitals will be used when collecting missing data or interpreting inconsistent or implausible data. After 12-month follow-up visits are completed and all data stored, a research assistant, not involved in the trial, will aggregate all the data into a separate database, which will be the source for the fnal data analysis. Participant fles will be maintained in storage (both in electronic and paper formats) at the coordinating center for a period of 10years after completion of the study (10-year follow-up visits). We will conduct an intention-to-treat analysis whereby all participants will be included in the study in the group to which they were randomized. Te analysis will be conducted by a statistical expert blinded to the trial, with two-sided hypothesis tests and p-values <0.05 signifcant. Baseline characteristics will be analyzed between groups using descriptive statistics. Continuous variables will be expressed in terms of the means and the standard deviations, and compared using the student t test (normally distributed) or Mann-Whitney U test (nonnormally distributed). Te categorical data will be expressed as frequency and compared using the Chi-square test or Fisher’s exact test. Normality will be confrmed using the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. To test for the efect of treatment on the betweengroup diference in the primary outcome (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index score), we will use a repeated measurement general linear model (Generalized linear models;) with Sidak test for multiple comparisons. Changes from baseline to all follow-up time points (1-, 3-, 6- and 12-month) will be included in the model to assess the diferences in the primary outcome at different follow-up times. Te Generalized linear models; will also be used as a multivariate analysis to assess the infuence of the treatment on the follow-up evolution of all the clinical scores and objective measures performed. Te mixed linear regression model (MLM) will be used to assess whether PRole-physical; efects on the primary outcome at 12months will be moderated by age, body mass index, and Kellgren and Lawrence grade. Te between-group diferences of continuous, normally distributed and homoscedastic data will be compared for their means using the analysis of variance (Analysis of variance;). Nonnormal data will be compared using the Mann-Whitney U test. To test for the efect of treatment on between-group diferences in secondary outcomes, we will also use the repeated measurement general linear model (Generalized linear models;) with the Sidak test for multiple comparisons. Changes from baseline to all follow-up time points will also be included in the model. Te statistical analysis method is similar to the primary analysis. magnetic resonance imaging;-derived measurements will be compared between groups using appropriate models, adjusting for age, sex, body mass index, and the stratifying variables. Te success of blinding will be assessed using the James Blinding Index . Te trial will be conducted according to the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki. Ethical approval has been obtained from the National Clinical Research Center for Hematologic Disease, the First Afliated Hospital of Soochow University Ethics Committee (No.2021–356). Te trial has been registered in the Chinese Clinical Trial Registry (ChiComputed tomography;R2100048624) and any revisions about the protocol are documented in this registry. All participants will provide written informed consent before any study-related procedures. Te results of the trial will be reported frst to trial collaborators. Te main report will be drafted by the trial coordinating team, and the fnal version will be agreed upon by the Trial Steering Committee before submission for publication, on behalf of the collaboration. Te results of this trial will substantially inform clinical practice on the clinical efectiveness and safety of the treatment in these patients. Te results of this project will be disseminated through peer-reviewed journals, conference presentations, the National Library for Health and through local mechanisms at the participating center. Tis is a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial evaluating the efcacy and safety of intra-articular injection of allogeneic PRole-physical; from blood donors in patients with knee Osteoarthritis; combined with hematologic blood dyscrasias with platelet dysfunction who are unsuitable for autologous PRole-physical; therapy. Te primary outcome is the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index score at 12-month. Our study will also evaluate the long-term efcacy of allogeneic PRole-physical; for up to 5years. Autologous PRole-physical; has been shown to alleviate the symptoms of patients sufering from knee Osteoarthritis; and allogeneic PRole-physical; has been proven to be safe and efective in the treatment of osteoarthritis, rotator cuf disease, refractory wounds and other medical felds . In the absence of efective evidence-based non-surgical interventions for patients with knee Osteoarthritis; combined with hematologic diseases with platelet dysfunction, allogeneic PRole-physical; would fulfll a clear clinical need. Tere was only one preliminary study on the efcacy of allogeneic PRole-physical; for knee Osteoarthritis; with short follow-up periods, no control group, and low evidence . In addition, all PRole-physical;s used for injection in the present study are from the same healthy donor at the same time and prepared with the same system. Tis avoids confounding factors and high risk of bias. A positive study outcome is that allogeneic PRole-physical; could be used as a non-surgical intervention to treat patients with knee Osteoarthritis; who are unsuitable for autologous PRole-physical; therapy. A negative outcome will prevent the widespread use of a non-efcacious treatment. Tis study has potential limitations. First, the generalizability of results to other PRole-physical; products and treatment regimens remains unknown. All PRole-physical; products difer in their production method and content, and diferent treatment regimens regarding dose, timing and number of injections are used in clinical practice. However, we prepare PRole-physical; using commercial kits by standardized procedures and analyzed related components. Second, this study will not control for variations in physical therapies between the two groups. Troughout the trial, the exercise therapy and lifestyle will be registered. Tird, the population recruited is from a single center. However, as our center is one of the three national clinical research centers for hematologic disease in China, it will help us screen a homogenous group of participants better.