Unicompartmental knee arthroplasty (Unicondylar knee arthroplasty) is commonly used for the treatment of isolated, compartmental osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) of the knee. It has shown to be a good and less invasive alternative to total knee arthroplasty (Total knee arthroplasty;) . Clinical outcomes have shown many advantages of Unicondylar knee arthroplasty . The procedure has relatively strict indications and contraindications because of higher failure rates in the presence of several clinical variables. Anterior cruciate ligament (Adenylyl cyclase;L) deficiency is a contraindication for the procedure. As it may cause abnormal knee kinematics and is associated with a tenfold increase in surgical failures, such as aseptic loosening of the tibial component . Kozinn and Scott believed Adenylyl cyclase;L deficiency should be a relative contraindication to fixed bearing Unicondylar knee arthroplasty . Goodfellow and O’Connor reported higher failure rates with mobile bearing implants in knees with Adenylyl cyclase;L deficiency . Relative young and more active patients with Osteoarthritis; of the isolated medial femorotibial compartment in conjunction with Adenylyl cyclase;L deficiency are difficult to treat. Classic treatment options have included Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction, high titial osteotomy (High tibial osteotomy;), combined Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction and High tibial osteotomy;, and Total knee arthroplasty;. However, patients with an intact lateral and patello-femoral compartment may not require Total knee arthroplasty;. Due to the high complication rate seen High tibial osteotomy; or High tibial osteotomy; with Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction , patients may also be reluctant to accept the options. Very few papers reported the treatment option of combined Unicondylar knee arthroplasty and Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction . Maybe as performing Unicondylar knee arthroplasty with Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction is technically demanding . They could be interfered with each other. The aim of the study was to follow a consecutive group of patients who received a combined procedure of Unicondylar knee arthroplasty and Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction. We hypothesized that the combined procedure would get outcome compared with isolated Unicondylar knee arthroplasty according to the literature. From January 2008 to January 2014, a total of 28 patients with isolated medial femorotibial compartment Osteoarthritis; secondary to Adenylyl cyclase;L deficiency and primary isolated medial femorotibial Osteoarthritis; with acute Adenylyl cyclase;L injury were prospectively evaluated. Patients were offered Oxford Unicondylar knee arthroplasty and Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction if they had significant symptoms and presented with isolated end-stage disease. The hospital’s institutional review board approved the project and the written informed consent was obtained from all the patients. The inclusion criteria were according to the indications of the Unicondylar knee arthroplasty except the intact Adenylyl cyclase;L . The patients were diagnosed of having isolated medial femorotibial compartment Osteoarthritis; and Adenylyl cyclase;L deficiency according to medical history, symptoms, physical and radiographic examinations. The Adenylyl cyclase;L deficiency needed to be further confirmed during the operation. The primary complaint of all the patients included was instability of the knee and pain located in the medial femorotibial compartment. All the patients should be relatively younger and have higher activity level. Among the 28 patients (28 knees), there were 25 patients with primary Adenylyl cyclase;L deficiency and secondary medial femorotibial Osteoarthritis;, 3 patients with isolated medial femorotibial Osteoarthritis; and acute Adenylyl cyclase;L injury, the Adenylyl cyclase;L injury happened within 6 weeks during sports. All these patients have no previous surgery on their knees. There were 15 left knees and 13 right knees, and 18 women and 10 men, with a mean age of 50.5 ± 3.5 years old (41 to 61) at the time of operation. The patients’ pre-operative Oxford Knee Score (Oxford knee score;), Knee Society Score (knee society score;) and Tegner activity score were shown in Table 1. The pre-operative anteroposterior radiographs in 15° flexion, lateral, femoral-patellar in 30° flexion view and long-leg standing radiographs were routinely performed. Stress radiographs in valgus were additionally available in order to verify the well-preserved lateral compartment. The varus deformity of the knee prior to surgery, the valgus degree after surgery and the posterior slope of the tibial component were measured and recorded. The posterior slope of the tibial component was defined as an angle between the posterior inclination of the tibial implant and a line perpendicular to the posterior tibial cortex as described in the literature . magnetic resonance imaging; was not performed on a regular basis. Standardized post-operative radiographs were taken for assessing for evidence of component loosening, the presence, type and extent of radiolucencies, progression of Osteoarthritis; in the lateral compartment, and tibial and femoral tunnel position. Radiolucencies were analyzed and classified as pathological or physiological based on descriptions given by Goodfellow et al. . Subsidence was considered to be evidence of loosening. Radiographs were reviewed independently by two observers who were blinded to the clinical outcomes. The inter-observer reliability for radiological assessment was also examined. All procedures were carried out using a minimally invasive technique for the Oxford III Unicondylar knee arthroplasty (Biomet China, Bridgend, United Kingdom) . We adopted the hamstring tendon autograft to reconstruct the deficient Adenylyl cyclase;L with the arthroscopy assisted. The Adenylyl cyclase;L surgery was anatomic single-bundle reconstruction . All the combined surgeries were done by the same experienced surgeon. Patient lied in a supine position having a tourniquet on his thigh as proximal as possible. Diagnostic arthroscopy was performed, and the indication of the combined procedure finally confirmed. For the patients with the acute Adenylyl cyclase;L injury, the femoral side remnants of the torn Adenylyl cyclase;L were removed and the medial meniscus was resected, while reserving the tibial side Adenylyl cyclase;L remnants. If there was lateral meniscus injury, partial meniscectomy or meniscoplasty was done meanwhile. Patella denervation was performed laterally during arthroscopy using a radiofrequency probe and medially during the subsequent open procedure. Both semitendinosus and gracilis tendons were used for Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction. The tendons were harvested after a vertical skin incision over the pes anserinus. A double-loop semitendinosus and gracilis tendon graft was prepared. A medial parapatella approach was used, beginning at 1 cm medial to the medial pole of the patella and extending distally to the tibial tubercle. A medial capsulotomy was performed leaving the quadriceps tendon intact in order to get sufficient access to the medial femorotibial compartment. Osteophytes were removed from the patella, the medial condyle and the intercondylar notch. The location of the tibial canal was determined first, and then the bone was prepared for the tibial component of the Unicondylar knee arthroplasty according to the technical manual . The horizontal cut was followed by the vertical cut. Then a cannulated drill was used for the tibial canal in a size matching with the diameter of the Adenylyl cyclase;L graft. An offset guide was used to identify the correct site for the femoral canal at the posterolateral notch, which also referred to the bony ridges or the Adenylyl cyclase;L remnants. Finally, the femoral condyle was prepared for the implant. At that point, the trial components were inserted to check the flexion and extension gap. Then after pulling the Adenylyl cyclase;L graft into the femur via the tibial canal and fixing the graft on the femoral site, the tibial base plate and the femoral component were cemented by stages, after that the bearing with the suitable size was installed. Repeated extension and flexion was performed to allow setting of the graft. At last the Adenylyl cyclase;L graft was fixed on the tibial site. The Adenylyl cyclase;L graft was fixed with the Endobutton (Smith&Nephew, United States.A) on the femoral site. The Adenylyl cyclase;L graft was fixed on the tibial site by Intrafix tibial fastener system (DePuy Mitek). One drain was used at the end of surgery.The drainage tube was placed for no more than 24 h. Antibiotic was applied for patients twice in the first day after operation. Analgesic and anticoagulant drugs were used routinely. In the 2nd day after operation X-rays of the operated knee were taken according to the requirement. The patients performed exercises of quadriceps with initiative and straight leg rising since 6 h after operations. Meanwhile, the patients started to walk with assistance of walker or crutch to help part of weight loading. Full weight bearing began at the 2nd week. Follow-up (follow-up;) was done at 1, 3, 6, 12 months after operations and each 1 year thereafter. The post-operative range of motion (Range of motion), KT-2000 arthrometer testing, the varus or valgus degree of the operated knee and the posterior slope of the tibial component were recorded. Clinical evaluations included Oxford Knee Score, the knee society score;-clinical score and knee society score;-function score and the Tegner activity score. The evaluations were done by two fellowshiptrained orthopedic surgeons who were also blinded to the study. All data were presented as mean and standard deviation of the mean. Statistical analyses were performed using Spropensity scores;S for Windows (version 18.0; Spropensity scores;S Inc., Chicago, Illinois, United States.A). Pearson’s correlation was used to analyze the impact of the posterior slope of the tibial component on the range of motion. As the data of Oxford knee score;, knee society score; and Tegner scores prior to and after surgery were found not to be normally distributed, Wilcoxon’s signed ranks test was used for the data. The significant level was set at P < 0.05. All the patients completed the whole follow-up;. The mean follow-up; time was (52 ± 8) months (24–96 months). No patient felt instability of the knee after surgery any more. All patients had a side-to-side difference of less than 3 mm according to KT-2000. The mean length of the incisions was (5.1 ± 0.3) cm. No patient had the complication of fracture during operation, and there was no patient with the complications such as collapse of tibial plateau, infection, thrombosis, and aseptic loose. There were 2 patients (7 %) with the complication of mobile bearing dislocation, both of the patients were the cases included in the study in the early stage, and received the second operation of replacing a thicker mobile bearing. Then they satisfied with the outcome. The leg alignment showed 3.1 ± 0.6° of varus deformity prior to surgery and 4.0 ± 0.7° of valgus after surgery. The Oxford knee score;, knee society score; and Tegner activity score improved significantly after surgery (P < 0.05) (Table 1). The posterior slope of the tibial component was 3.9 ± 1.2°. The mean Range of motion of the operated knee in sagittal plane at the last follow-up; was 123.5 ± 2.8°. A significant correlation was found between the posterior slope of the tibial component and the Range of motion (r = 0.39, P = 0.03), that means higher tibial slopes are correlated with more range of motion. All the interobserver reliabilities for the radiographic assessments were above 0.95. At the last follow-up;, there was no patient had evidence of component subsidence or pathological radiolucency. There were 10 components on the tibial site showing physiological radiolucency of a maximum of 1 mm. In order to choose the right options for the patients with medial femorotibial Osteoarthritis; and Adenylyl cyclase;L deficiency, strict inclusion criteria should be made and the primary pathology should be also explored. As the consequences of Adenylyl cyclase;L deficiency in association with medial femorotibial Osteoarthritis; depends on the primary pathology. If arthritis is the primary problem, it tends to begin anteriorly in the medial compartment and then extend posteriorly and progressively damage the Adenylyl cyclase;L . By the time the Adenylyl cyclase;L is destroyed the medial collateral ligament has shortened and the lateral side is usually damaged . For these patients the Unicondylar knee arthroplasty combined with Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction would be inappropriate, and the best option is a Total knee arthroplasty;. In contrast, if the Adenylyl cyclase;L deficiency is the primary problem, the arthritic change tends to begin posteriorly in the medial compartment . This is possibly due to recurrent episodes of giving way, in which posterior femoral subluxation in the medial compartment places a heavy load on the posterior part of the medial meniscus and underlying articular cartilage of the tibia, producing medial compartment Osteoarthritis;. These patients tend to be relatively young and active, and the medial collateral ligament and lateral compartment are relatively normal. In such situations, the surgical treatment options are as follows: High tibial osteotomy; with or without Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction, Unicondylar knee arthroplasty with or without Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction, Total knee arthroplasty; or Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction alone . These treatment options also apply to the patients with primary isolated medial femorotibial Osteoarthritis; combined with acute Adenylyl cyclase;L injury. Due to younger age and higher activity levels seen in these patients, bone conserving options are preferred with Total knee arthroplasty; not being recommended as the primary treatment option . Such patients can consider the options of High tibial osteotomy;/Unicondylar knee arthroplasty combined with Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction. For the patients who report instability as their primary complaint, Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction alone can be used as a reasonable, low co-morbility treatment option to improve symptoms prior to subsequent High tibial osteotomy; or Unicondylar knee arthroplasty, which is a definitive treatment option . Both High tibial osteotomy; and Unicondylar knee arthroplasty have been demonstrated to be valid treatment options for the treatment of isolated medial Osteoarthritis;, while the philosophy behind each technique is markedly different, the indications and outcomes of each technique are also different, and there is still lack of consensus in the literature as to which technique provides optimum outcomes for specific patient subgroups. But more and more papers reported that the rate of complications and revisions following High tibial osteotomy; was higher than the rate seen in patients receiving Unicondylar knee arthroplasty. So in this study we choose the Unicondylar knee arthroplasty rather than High tibial osteotomy; combined with Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction as the treatments options for the patients. From the study, satisfactory early and midterm clinical outcomes were obtained which was completely comparable to the data reported by other researchers. Krishnan SR, et al. reported the results of their studies, in which 9 patients were treated by the combined operation of Unicondylar knee arthroplasty and Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction, and were followed up for 2 years . No revision was required in these patients and the mean knee society score; was as high as 196 points. Similar excellent clinical outcomes were reported by Pandit H, et al. In their study, 15 patients received the combined operation and the mean knee society score; was 195 points after a follow-up; time of 2.5 years . To be differently, both of the studies just reported the early clinical outcomes, while in our study the patients were followed up relatively longer time and the satisfactory results were reported with the knee society score; clinical and function score of 84.5 and 86.9 respectively. In 2012, Tinius M, et al. reported their midterm clinical data with a mean follow-up; time of 50 months , which revealed promising results with the knee society score; clinical and function score of 84.1 and 83.4 respectively. Comparing with these results, our outcomes were much better. The definite reasons were not clear. It somewhat related to the different prosthesis the two studies adopted. In Tiniu M’s study all patients received fixed-bearing tibial component, while in the current study the mobile bearing Oxford phase III prosthesis was adopted. The mobile bearing could result in low wear and loosening rates according to the literature . Weston-Simons JS et al. also reported their outcome of combined Oxford Unicondylar knee arthroplasty and combined or sequential Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction in 2012. Fifty-two patients were enrolled the study with a mean follow-up; of 5 years. The Oxford knee score; and Tegner activity score were improved from 28 and 2.5 to 41 and 3.5 respectively . In our study, the Oxford knee score; and Tegner activity score were improved from 31 and 4.4 to 43 and 5.3 respectively. In our study, the patients were more active and all the combined Oxford Unicondylar knee arthroplasty and Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction were done by the same experienced surgeon, and the hamstring tendons autograft were chosen for the patients. While in Weston-Simons JS’s study, patients received simultaneous or staged Unicondylar knee arthroplasty and Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction, and the operations were done by different surgeons. The grafts chosen for Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction were also different, including hamstring and bone-patellar tendonbone graft. Another study about the in vivo kinematics of the combined Oxford Unicondylar knee arthroplasty and Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction showed that the sagittal plane kinematics were nearly normal after combined Unicondylar knee arthroplasty and Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction . This may also further explain why these knees in our study have good function and do not have tibial loosening in the follow-up; time. One should keep in mind that these combined procedures are technically very demanding. Surgeons should have rich experience of doing procedures of Unicondylar knee arthroplasty and Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction. We know that the long-term success rate in Unicondylar knee arthroplasty correlates well with the number of operations performed per year . The same is true in Adenylyl cyclase;L surgery . By reviewing literature, the papers reporting about the procedures of Unicondylar knee arthroplasty and Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction for the patients were very few. So, here we made some technical key points which should keep in mind. The first is that the tibial canal should be positioned as lateral as possible in order to avoid weakening of the medial tibial plateau. The collapse of the medial tibial plateau was reported the most common mode of failure . Secondly, after determining the location of the tibial canal and drilling the guide wire, the tibial canal was drilled after bone preparation for the tibial component being completed, in case the tibial cuts came too close to the tibial guide wire, there was still a chance for correcting the position of the guide wire. Another point is that for the Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction we adopted anatomic single-bundle reconstruction technique, and the location of tibial and femoral canal sites referred to the remnant of Adenylyl cyclase;L and the bone marks. The last is that after drilling the Adenylyl cyclase;L tibial and femoral canal, preparing the bone bed for the Unicondylar knee arthroplasty components, and checking the flexion and extension gap, next procedures are important. You should firstly pull the Adenylyl cyclase;L graft into the femur via the tibial canal, followed by fixing the graft on the femoral site, and then installing the components, at last the Adenylyl cyclase;L graft was fixed on the tibial site. In this sequence, the size of the mobile bearing could be chosen accurate and the suitable tension of the Adenylyl cyclase;L graft could be guaranteed. In this study, the posterior slope of the tibial component was 3.9° and within the range as reported by others . Hernigou P, et al. recommended that the posterior slope of tibial component not exceed 7° . They also reported the significant correlation between the anterior translation and the posterior slope of the tibial component. In our study, a significant correlation was found between the posterior slope and the Range of motion, which means that higher tibial slopes are correlated with more range of motion. However, one should keep in mind that the posterior slope of the tibial component should refer to the posterior slope pre-operation or that of the opposite knee, try to avoid increasing the posterior slope in order to increase the Range of motion of the knee. As Hernigou P, et al. reported an increase in aseptic loosening and Adenylyl cyclase;L injury associated with increase posterior slope of the tibial . When assessing radiographs, no patients in the group had evidence of component subsidence or pathological radiolucency. But the follow-up in this study is very early. Hopefully these results continue into the medium and long term. Ten components showed radiolucent lines which were defined as physiological radiolucency without clinical relevance. Tibrewal SB, et al. distinguished between the physiological radiolucency, which developed during the first year after surgery without any further progression and the pathological radiolucency caused by aseptic loosening or infection . Gulati A, et al. also reported that 62 % of their cases showed physiological radiolucency . There was no relationship being observed between body mass index;, age, gender, residual varus deformity or the status of the Adenylyl cyclase;L and the incidence of radiolucency. In our study, 36 % (10 cases) of cases showed physiological radiolucency. First, the number of cases in the study is small and the follow-up; time is relatively short. Further study with large sample size cases with long term of follow-up; should be done. Second, no comparative group was included in this study, which limits the evidence or our results. As this procedure is not very common and very technical demanding, after the promising results, we may design a study comparing this technique with other well-established techniques such as Total knee arthroplasty; or High tibial osteotomy;. For the relatively young and active patients with primary Adenylyl cyclase;L deficiency and secondary isolated femorotibial Osteoarthritis;, and the patients with isolated femorotibial Osteoarthritis; and acute Adenylyl cyclase;L injury, the early and midterm clinical data have shown that combined surgery of Oxford Unicondylar knee arthroplasty and Adenylyl cyclase;L reconstruction has revealed promising results. However, long-term follow-up; studies should be done in these patients.