Osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) is a degenerative joint disease impeding human body biomechanics and resulting in poor quality of life . In Canada, 219,000 new cases were diagnosed with Osteoarthritis; between 2016 and 2017 , with a sharp increase in Osteoarthritis; patient numbers expected in the next 30 years . Osteoarthritis; of the knee is very frequent and results from the progressive degeneration of articular cartilage either idiopathically or following structural changes or trauma . Tis causes joint pain and infammation resulting in reduced joint range of motion (Range of motion;) and mobility . Standard care for knee Osteoarthritis; includes conservative therapies or surgery . Despite their afordability, management of pain, and/or delay of cartilage degeneration, conservative approaches like physiotherapy, analgesics, and intra-articular corticosteroid or hyaluronic acid (Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range;) injections have short-term efcacy and are still unproven to modify the disease . Although surgery is recommended for end-stage knee Osteoarthritis;, postoperative complications, cost, and lack of solid trial evidence remain problematic . In addition to relieving symptoms, newer investigational intra-articular therapies including cell therapies modalities are proposed to reverse the underlying pathological processes of knee Osteoarthritis; . Platelet-rich plasma (PRole-physical;) is an autologous blood component with high concentrations of platelets– megakaryocyte-derived fragments, whose secretome promotes cartilage repair in vitro and in vivo . In clinical studies, PRole-physical; injections in symptomatic patients with knee Osteoarthritis; have demonstrated safety and better pain and mobility outcomes up to 12months after treatment . However, further clinical data are imperative to strengthen the evidence of their efcacy . Another attention-drawing cell therapy is bone marrow aspirate concentrate (Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular;) . Te advantage of this therapy is its composition of multiple cell fractions including platelets, monocytes, and mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs)—the latter notorious for their multi-lineage diferentiation potential and secretome-mediated regenerative efects . Clinically, Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular; and MSCs have demonstrated a promising therapeutic potential in multiple orthopedic conditions , including spinal Osteoarthritis;  and knee Osteoarthritis; . However, the quality of clinical evidence corroborated by literature remains low . Backed by in vivo fndings , few clinical studies have hitherto compared the functional and/or biological outcomes of PRole-physical; vs Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular;/MSC therapy in knee Osteoarthritis; . Terefrom, conficting data have emerged mandating further investigations . In this non-randomized comparative retrospective study, we sought to enhance available clinical knowledge by investigating potential diferences in improvement on pain and functionality scales between PRole-physical;- and Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular;-treated patients. Outcomes were measured over 12months at diferent time points using 3 self-administered, clinically validated questionnaires: i) the visual analogue scale (Visual analog score;) for assessing pain intensity on a scale of 0–10cm , ii) the knee injury and osteoarthritis outcome score (Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score;) for evaluating symptoms, stifness, pain, physical function (daily living and sports/recreational activities), and quality of life on a scale of 0–100 (100=best function) , and iii) the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index (Western Ontario McMaster Universities.) for evaluating symptoms, stifness, pain, and daily function on a scale of 0–100 (100=best function) . Study design and interventions Te herein research was conducted according to the World Medical Association Declaration of Helsinki. Conforming with the local legislative and procedural institutional obligations concerning the retrospective study nature, ethical review and approval was not mandated, similar to our recent spinal Osteoarthritis; research . Informed consent forms as a written expression of patient voluntary participation were obtained. Patients also consented to the anonymous publishing of collected data. From a single center, 30 patients diagnosed with symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis; and meeting the selection criteria (Table 1) were recruited between September 2016 and July 2018 after being referred by their primary care physicians. Diagnosis was confrmed based on history, physical examination, and diagnostic imaging using X-rays with or without Magnetic resonance imaging;s. All participants were well informed about the study objectives, associated risks and benefts, and treatment alternatives before and during the consent process. Patients received in their osteoarthritic knees either Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular; (n=27 knees of 20 patients) or PRole-physical; (n=13 knees of 10 patients) injections as delineated in the supplementary material (see Additional fle 1: Tables 1–2). As described elsewhere , autologous bone marrow (Bone marrow;) tissue was aspirated using a commercial trochar and concentrated for MSCs under sterile conditions. Briefy, the posterior superior iliac spine was marked with ultrasound guidance for Bone marrow; aspiration. Ten 2% lidocaine was injected into the soft tissue and periosteum. An entry point was created using the introducer 14G trocar needle with which the bone was drilled through the periosteum and cortex and into the spongy bone. Using heparinized syringes, 1–6cc were subsequently aspirated per level while slowly withdrawing until approximately 60 cc of aspirate was collected. Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular; was obtained and processed as described before for the mononuclear fraction containing MSCs (CD45−CD44+CD90+CD105+) among others . PRole-physical; tissue was processed using the Harvest Technologies SmartPrep Multicellular Processing System (Terumo BCT, Inc., Lakewood, CO). First, 30cc of blood was withdrawn from patients, anti-coagulated with acid citrate dextrose, and centrifuged for 14min. Tree blood layers were then obtained and the upper two, the plasma and the bufy coat, collected to obtain the fnal PRole-physical; product. Te injection site was prepared in sterile conditions using chlorhexidine swabs. Under ultrasound guidance, the area was visualized and marked, then PRole-physical; or Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular; injected into the appropriate knee intra-articularly. As seen in other studies (20,33), knees were injected unilaterally or bilaterally. In case of unilateral knee Osteoarthritis;, the knee was injected 1–3 times within a one-month period at maximum depending on the grade of Osteoarthritis;. For bilateral knee Osteoarthritis;, both knees were injected simultaneously. Te number and application of injections and the grade of Osteoarthritis; are further detailed in the supplementary material per knee per patient per group (see Additional fle 1: Tables 1–2). In the baseline visit, all patients provided their date of birth and gender; were clinically assessed for range of motion (Range of motion;), efusions, swelling, and tenderness to palpation at the joint line; and self-reported their kneerelated pain and functionality using the three clinically validated questionnaires: the Visual analog score;, the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score;, and the Western Ontario McMaster Universities.. Te frst follow-up post-injection occurred after 2 weeks in the clinic. Subsequently, follow-up visits occurred at 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12months and entailed clinical reassessments and remeasurements of knee-related pain and functionality scores as well as collection of treatment-emergent adverse events. Baseline demographic and patient disease history information were summarized for the sample stratifed by the numbers of knees injected and type of injection and presented as mean with standard deviation (Standard deviation.) or 95% confdence interval (Confdence interval.); median with interquartile range (Interquartile range;); or count with percent (%) according to the type and/or normality of variables. Te Shapiro-Wilk test was used to verify the normality of data distribution. Knee groups were compared at baseline in all variables using Independent-Samples t-test, Mann-Whitney U test, ChiSquared test, or Independent-Samples Median test based on the variable type and normality or non-normality of distribution. Te repeated-measures general linear model (General linear model;) with Sidak test for pairwise comparisons was used to investigate the infuence of the treatment on the evolution of all knee-related clinical scores within a group. As such, time was considered a within-subject variable. Te primary variable of interest within a group was the efect of time and the diference of estimated marginal means. Te repeated-measures General linear model; with Sidak test for pairwise comparisons was used to compare the change in Visual analog score;, Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score;, and Western Ontario McMaster Universities. scores between knee groups throughout the duration of the study. As such, time was considered a within-subject variable and treatment a between-subject factor. Te primary variable of interest between both groups was the efect of the treatment and the diference of estimated marginal means. Pearson or Spearman correlation (2-tailed) was performed to assess correlation efects based on the types of variables. All statistical analyses were performed using SPosterior  stabilized;S version 20.0 (IBone marrow; Corp). For all tests, P <0.05 was considered signifcant. As seen in other studies , data analyzed per patient were from either unilaterally or bilaterally injected knees. A total of 40 osteoarthritic knees (belonging to 30 patients) that have received either injection (Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular;, n=27 vs PRole-physical;, n=13) were assessed. One knee belonging to one patient treated with Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular; was lost to follow-up and thus could not be included in the analysis due to lack of complete data. No other serious complications or adverse events were recorded. Except for Western Ontario McMaster Universities. scores, baseline parameters were homogeneously distributed between both groups (Table 2). To compare the potency of both autologous treatments, Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular;- and PRole-physical;-treated patients were followed up on several parameters over 12months following the procedure. A statistically signifcant improvement was observed in all clinical scores of Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular;-injected knees. More specifcally, Visual analog score; scores improved by 57.4% on average, decreasing from 6.23 (±2.1) at baseline to 2.58 (±1.68) at 12months (P =.000) (Fig. 1). Similarly, Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; scores improved by 75.88% on average, increasing from 48.23 (±19.42) at baseline to 72.85 (±16.2) at 12months (P =.002) (Fig. 2). Changes (%) in Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; scores from baseline are represented as mean±95% Confdence interval.. A general linear model for repeated measures was used to calculate p-values within each group compared to baseline and between treatment groups. Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular;, bone marrow aspirate concentrate; Confdence interval., confdence interval; ns, nonsignifcant; PRole-physical;, platelet-rich plasma; Ref, reference. Western Ontario McMaster Universities. scores also showed a signifcant 73.95% improvement on average, increasing from 50.38 (±19.99) at baseline to 75.12 (±16.87) at 12months (P =.005) (Fig. 3). On the other hand, no signifcant overall improvement was documented in any of the clinical scores assessed for PRole-physical;-injected knees. Visual analog score; scores fuctuated between baseline and 3 months around 5 (±2.35), then decreased signifcantly at 6 months by 27.55% (P =.002) and at 9 months by 33.3% (P =.012). At 12 months, however, Visual analog score; scores decreased to 3.85 (±2.76) albeit without attaining a signifcant diference compared to baseline (Fig. 1). Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; scores also recorded a nonsignifcant improvement between baseline (61.69±11.51) and 12 months (67.62±12.38) (Fig. 2). Similarly, a nonsignifcant improvement in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. scores was reported between baseline (65.15±13.64) and 12 months (70±13.11) (Fig. 3). Intergroup analysis showed signifcant diferences between Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular; and PRole-physical; treatments in all adopted clinical scores, with mean improvements across all follow-up measurements being signifcantly higher in the Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular; group (Figs 1, 2, 3). Noteworthy, baseline Western Ontario McMaster Universities. scores between both groups were signifcantly diferent, which could have biased the time-dependent intergroup statistical diferences in this scale. Overall, these data show that Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular; treatment provides more clinical benefts to knee Osteoarthritis; patients compared to PRole-physical; therapy In the Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular; group, improvement in all scores correlated with patients’ gender, with female patients exhibiting better responses than their male counterparts. Furthermore, improvement in Visual analog score; scores was dose-dependent, meaning that the greater the number of treatments and Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular; volume, the better the pain score. Both Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; and Western Ontario McMaster Universities. scores were further age- and Osteoarthritis; degree-dependent. Tis implies that improved functionality correlates positively with younger patients exhibiting milder Osteoarthritis; symptoms (Fig. 4 and Table 3). In PRole-physical;-treated patients, improvements in all scores were highly dependent on the volume of injected PRole-physical;. Furthermore, improvement in Visual analog score; scores was positively correlated with male patients and was dose-dependent (Table 3). In subgroup analysis, we categorized patients into milder (grades 1-2) and more severe (grades 3-4) Osteoarthritis; groups to further evaluate the efect of Osteoarthritis; grades on clinical outcomes. Te distribution of Osteoarthritis; grades 1-2 vs grades 3-4 was homogeneous within treatment groups and between treatment groups (see Additional fle 1: Table 3). Within treatment groups, no signifcant diferences were recorded between Osteoarthritis; grades 1-2 vs grades 3-4 in the improvement at 12months in any of the 3 clinical scores (see Additional fle 1: Fig. 1). Between treatment groups, however, signifcant diferences were observed over 12months in all adopted clinical scores only in patients with Kellgren-Lawrence score; grades 1-2 (Fig. 5). Overall, our data show that Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular; treatment could be more benefcial than PRole-physical; in patients with knee Osteoarthritis;, especially with milder disease grades. Current knee Osteoarthritis; treatment options, such as analgesics, corticosteroid injections, Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; injections, and surgery, focus on managing joint pain and infammation, yet their safety and long-term efcacy are still questioned . To bypass these issues, recent investigational studies have adopted regenerative medicine products with the rationale of treating Osteoarthritis; pathology by impacting the knee joint homeostasis . PRole-physical;, a platelet- and growth factor-studded therapy, has gained considerable attention in clinical settings, demonstrating 1-year long benefts, especially in younger patients with mild knee Osteoarthritis; . Te therapeutic outcomes of PRole-physical; could be linked to platelet- or non–plateletderived growth factors, such as insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), which induce anabolic and structural changes at the level of the articular extracellular matrix and stem cell niche, and may attenuate degenerative proinfammatory processes . Recently, a meta-analysis of 18 randomized controlled trials (Randomised control trial; EQ 5 D: EuroQol-5D;s) of knee Osteoarthritis; has shown that PRole-physical; elicits better improvement in pain and functionality scores compared to Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; . Contrarily, another meta-analysis of 43 Randomised control trial; EQ 5 D: EuroQol-5D;s revealed no diferences between PRole-physical; and Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; in terms of ameliorating pain and functionality . Considering these contradictory reports, evidence for PRole-physical;’s therapeutic superiority remains inconclusive. Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular;, on the other hand, harbors potent regenerative potential owing to its richness in platelets, white blood cells, and MSCs  that are characterized by their multi-lineage differentiation potential, anti-infammatory profle, and pro-angiogenic auxiliary efects . However, it remains unclear whether PRole-physical; and Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular;/MSCs lead to comparable outcomes in knee Osteoarthritis; . Tis knowledge gap formed therefore the basis of the herein investigation. Although head-to-head comparisons with the literature are difcult to perform due to the relatively small number of studies investigating Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular; as a monotherapy in knee Osteoarthritis; and the vast diferences in study designs and measured outcomes , our results are generally in line with previous fndings showing that Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular; signifcantly improves Visual analog score; , Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; , and Western Ontario McMaster Universities. scores . Notable, the statistical diference in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. scores between both groups could have been biased due to the imbalance reported at baseline. Te observed improvements correlated with several factors. More specifcally, female patients receiving 2–3 treatments with higher volumes were more likely to improve on the pain scale compared to male patients receiving single treatments. Correlation data are also in line with previous studies demonstrating that the female gender, younger age groups, higher dose cellularity, and milder Osteoarthritis; all have better prognosis . In explanation of these correlated factors, increasing age was shown to be associated with reduced MSC numbers, lifespan, and proliferation/diferentiation capacity . In addition, human female MSCs were observed to divide more rapidly, exist in higher amounts in cell preparations, and promote a stronger anti-infammatory environment by suppressing T-cell proliferation . In terms of safety, although no Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular;-emergent adverse events were recorded, it is important to note the potential risks associated with bone marrow aspiration, including anemia, postoperative pain, neuralgia, and minor complications . Although PRole-physical;-treated knees (n=13) showed no statistically signifcant improvement on the scales of pain and functionality, the discrepancy between our results and previous data demonstrating remarkable clinical benefts with PRole-physical;  could be linked to our relatively small sample size preventing the detection of statistically signifcant improvement compared to baseline. A recent study has examined the biologic diferences between Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular; and PRole-physical;, showing that both difer in the concentration of leukocytes, cytokines, and growth factors, but not platelets, which might indicate potential therapeutic diferences in orthopedic conditions . Still and all, the two comparative analyses between Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular; and PRole-physical; in the literature have shown equivalent efcacy between both therapies with up to 12-month follow-up . A Randomised control trial; EQ 5 D: EuroQol-5D; was also conducted to determine which treatment is more efective, without yet disclosing any results (NCT03825133) . Another trial has compared PRole-physical;-enhanced MSCs vs PRole-physical;, without disseminating further data (NCT01985633) . Te combined use of Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular; and PRole-physical; injected 1-to2-month apart has shown to provide benefts in retrospective case series; however, the proof of synergism is unclear . In our study, we show that Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular; therapy results in more signifcant improvements in knee pain and functionality than PRole-physical; throughout 12months of follow-up (Graphical abstract). Te weight of these improvements is concentrated in milder knee Osteoarthritis; subgroups (knee Osteoarthritis; grades 1-2) (Fig. 5). Further follow-up is also expected to support these outcomes. Noteworthy, it is pivotal to highlight the small sample size of the PRole-physical; group as well as the fact that current protocols have no consensus in terms of the used methodology, including the preparation, dosage, and administration of PRole-physical; and Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular;, which could weaken the quality of data and pose a challenge for comparative analyses . Indeed, the diferences in treatment protocols (ie, number of injections and volume injected) for each group, albeit balanced at baseline, could have impacted the quality of our intergroup outcomes. More homogenized treatment protocols are thus necessary to strengthen the evidence of intergroup diferences. Additionally, another confounding factor potentially afecting intergroup diferences is the efect of heparin used during Bone marrow; aspiration. Recently, it has been shown that heparin impacts gene expression in Bone marrow;-derived stromal cells without afecting their multilineage diferentiation potential . Overall, our results corroborate the therapeutic benefts of Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular; in patients with symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis; (Graphical abstract). Notable, our study limitations remain its: i) small sample size, ii) diferences in group sizes, iii) uncontrolled nature, and iv) lack of morphological evaluation of knee cartilages pre- and postoperatively. A larger Randomised control trial; EQ 5 D: EuroQol-5D; with more standardized operating procedures will thus be necessary to validate the efcacy of both investigated therapies and their equivalence or lack thereof. Whether higher numbers of treatments and treatment volumes or combined therapy could further improve clinical outcomes is also a potential future directive. Intra-articular autologous Bone marrow;Acromioclavicular; therapy safely and efectively reduced pain and improved functionality in patients with symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis; to a greater extent than PRole-physical; therapy.