Osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) of the knee is common , debilitating  and increasing in its prevalence . Any therapeutic intervention that can relieve symptoms of Osteoarthritis;, prevent its progression and/or delay the need for surgery therefore has potential to dramatically improve quality of life for patients. Nonoperative treatment modalities for symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis; include analgesia , physiotherapy , healthy lifestyle and weight reduction regimens . Surgical intervention in the form of osteotomy  or arthroplasty  is well-established, but is not without complications  and a prolonged rehabilitation phase . Intraarticular therapies for knee Osteoarthritis; using intraarticular corticosteroid (Intraarticular corticosteroid;) and hyaluronic acid (Hyaluronic acid;) have been reported . However, dose-dependent chondrotoxicity , short duration of effect  with Intraarticular corticosteroid; and arthralgia , and variable evidence  with Hyaluronic acid; are some of their limitations. Some investigators have performed intraarticular injection of platelet-rich plasma (Platelet-rich plasma;)  and mesenchymal stem/stromal cells (Mesenchymal stem/stromal cells;)  due to their perceived biological function(s) to restore joint homeostasis . The pathophysiology of Osteoarthritis; includes a complex interplay of pro-inflammatory mediators like interleukin-1 (IL-1), interleukin-6 (Interleukin-6;), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (Tumor necrosis factor-alpha;), macrophage chemotactic protein (Macrophage chemotactic protein;), monokine induced by interferon (Monokine induced by interferon;), oncostatin M (Oncostatin M;) and matrix metalloproteinases (Matrix metalloproteinases;) amongst others. The biological therapeutic group products which have been developed for the management of Osteoarthritis; of the knee are designed to inhibit the action of interleukin-1 (IL-1), a pro-inflammatory cytokine that has been implicated in, and targeted for treatment of, multiple human diseases . Animal experimental evidence suggests that upregulation of IL-1-receptor antagonist (Interleukin-1-receptor antagonist;) may reduce the progression of Osteoarthritis; . Biological injective therapy options based around this theory have been developed and referred to as autologous conditioned serum (Autologous conditioned serum;) or autologous protein solution (Autologous protein solution;), both of which are prepared from autologous peripheral blood, which is conditioned by incubation with glass beads, leading to increases in the production of Interleukin-1-receptor antagonist; as well as multiple other cytokines and growth factors . Several investigators have evaluated the role of autologous cell-free serum preparations like Autologous protein solution;  and Autologous conditioned serum;  in the management of knee Osteoarthritis; with human clinical studies following initial in-vitro  and animal model studies . The majority of the available review articles on the topic have summarised the basic science and the results of Autologous conditioned serum;. However, there is paucity in the current literature providing an objective evaluation of the clinical outcomes of these novel products. Hence, the primary objective of this paper was to collate the available clinical evidence in the published literature and critically appraise the results of intraarticular injection of autologous cell-free serum preparations in the management of knee Osteoarthritis;. The secondary objective was to answer the following questions encountered in the clinical decision-making process of managing patients with Osteoarthritis; of the knee: 1. Is it safe to perform intraarticular injection of autologous cell-free serum preparations such as Autologous protein solution;/Autologous conditioned serum; for Osteoarthritis; of the knee using commercially available kits? 2. Does this procedure provide an effective and longlasting symptomatic relief to avoid further surgical intervention? 3. What factors (patient/procedure/device) significantly influence the outcome following this treatment? 4. Do these intraarticular injection procedures have any potential adverse effect on the outcomes of subsequent surgical procedures? Given the similarities, we included studies pertaining to both, with the generic title of Autologous conditioned serum;/Autologous protein solution; referring to both products. Literature search and databases An English literature search of all the available evidence was undertaken (June 2019) using the healthcare database website (https://hdas.nice.org.uk/). The databases searched were Medline, Confidence interval;NAHL, Embase and the Cochrane library. Medline search was performed using Boolean statements and the wildcard symbol (*). The search criteria: “knee* AND (auto* Odds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles; autologous*) AND (condition* Odds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles; conditioned* Odds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles; protein* Odds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles; pro*) AND (serum* Odds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles; solution* Odds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles; solutions*)”. Embase search was performed using Boolean statements and the wildcard symbol (*). The search criteria: “knee* AND (auto* Odds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles; autologous*) AND (condition* Odds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles; conditioned* Odds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles; protein* Odds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles; pro*) AND (serum* Odds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles; solution* Odds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles; solutions*)”. Confidence interval;NAHL database was searched using the following criteria: “knee* AND (auto* Odds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles; autologous*) AND (condition* Odds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles; conditioned* Odds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles; protein* Odds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles; pro*) AND (serum* Odds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles; solution* Odds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles; solutions*)”. A review of the Cochrane database for relevant articles was performed. An adjunctive bibliography search was undertaken to identify additional relevant studies through review articles and Google scholar (https:// scholar.google.co.uk/) using the commercial names of Autologous protein solution; –‘nSTRIDE’(Biomet Biologics, Warsaw, IN, USA) and Autologous conditioned serum; –‘Orthokin’(Orthogen AG, Dusseldorf, Germany). Additionally, given the scope of the current review to assess the safety of this novel treatment including adverse reactions, a comprehensive search of the grey literature (OpenGrey /OpenDOsteoarthritis;R ) was undertaken. All studies reporting the clinical outcomes of patients with knee Osteoarthritis; receiving intraarticular injection of autologous cell-free preparations like Autologous protein solution;/Autologous conditioned serum; were included. Review articles, animal and in-vitro studies were excluded. The above database search returned 555 articles of which 27 were relevant to the current review. Adjunctive bibliography search identified three articles whereas 15 articles were noted to be duplicates (Table 1). Grey literature search found no results. Thus, a total of 15 relevant articles were identified in the current literature and were selected for further review. It was noted that amongst the 15 articles, two were initial abstracts  of subsequent papers in the same cohort of patients. Hence, data from the later studies was considered for analysis. Details of the articles which describe the clinical outcomes of intraarticular injection of autologous cell-free serum preparations like Autologous protein solution;/Autologous conditioned serum; are provided in Tables 2, 3, 4 and 5. The salient points and current evidence to the focussed questions to help in the clinical decision-making process are presented below. Safety profile and morbidity of intraarticular injections of Autologous conditioned serum;/Autologous protein solution; To date, the outcomes of 1229 patients involved in studies evaluating the effect of injection of Autologous conditioned serum;/Autologous protein solution; have been reported (Table 2). The adverse reactions noted in these patients have been similar to the intraarticular administration of other therapeutic agents . Additionally, they have been of a transient and self-limiting type . Following clinical trials, the investigators from the above studies in the current literature have concluded that the overall safety profile of autologous cell-free serum preparations, such as Autologous conditioned serum; and Autologous protein solution;, to be satisfactory for clinical use. Ongoing clinical trials  have the scope to provide further evidence in this aspect. Amongst the various studies in the literature only one study from 2008 reported a single case of septic arthritis . However, this complication has not been reported by other investigators. Current studies have demonstrated that duration of pain and symptom relief period can vary from 3 to 24 months (Tables 2 and 4). Zarringam et al.  performed Kaplan-Meier survivorship analysis on the original cohort of patients from the study conducted by Yang et al.  between February 2004 to August 2006. They noted that at 7.5 ± 3.9 years of follow-up, 40.3% of patients from the group who received Autologous conditioned serum; compared to 46.3% of patients from the placebo group who received physiological saline underwent surgical intervention. However, this was not statistically significant (p = 0.150). Outcomes following injection of Autologous conditioned serum;/Autologous protein solution; have been reported in patients over a wide age range (34–87 years) with unilateral or bilateral knee Osteoarthritis;. All the investigational studies of these products have been performed on cohorts of patients with symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis; excluding patients with conditions like systemic/inflammatory joint disease and crystalline/ neuropathic arthropathy. It must be noted that whilst some investigators excluded patients who had had surgery on their knee within 3 months  of the screening visit others have extended this time limit to 6  and 12 months . Furthermore, there is significant variation in the inclusion criteria with respect to patients who have received intraarticular treatments. Body mass index (Body mass index;) of the study patients is not consistently reported in the literature (Table 2). Autologous conditioned serum;/Autologous protein solution; injections have been performed in patients with symptomatic unilateral or bilateral knee Osteoarthritis; with However, there is no clear agreement in terms of the objective criteria used to assess the severity of knee Osteoarthritis; prior to performing these injections in the study patients. A combination of American College of Rheumatology (AComputed radiography;) criteria , visual analogue scale (Visualanalogue scale;) , numeric rating scale (Numeric rating scale;) , Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;) , including the pain subscale, have been used by the investigators. Only one study  in the literature has evaluated the effect of the intraarticular administration of Autologous conditioned serum; on range of motion. Tassara et al.  noted that the median range of knee flexion improved by 25° to 120° (95–140°) from a baseline of 95° (90–105°). Currently, there is no data to draw conclusions regarding varus/valgus alignment of the knee and its influence on the outcome following injection of Autologous conditioned serum;/Autologous protein solution;. Considerable variation is noted with the injection regimen for Autologous conditioned serum; (Table 2). Some investigators  have used 1 ml whilst others  have administered 2 ml of Autologous conditioned serum;. Furthermore, the number of injections performed is variable ranging between three  to six  over a period of 2–3 weeks. In contrast all the studies  with Autologous protein solution; used a single injection of 2.5 ml. Some authors  recommend aspiration of knee prior to injection whilst others have used ultrasound-guided injections . Five studies  have described further procedures carried out on participants subsequent to intraarticular treatment with Autologous conditioned serum;/Autologous protein solution;. Only limited and indirect data is available from the current studies regarding patients who have undergone surgical procedures such as partial/total knee replacement  and osteotomy . In patients who had previously received Autologous conditioned serum;/Autologous protein solution; there were a total of 35 additional procedures (26 arthroplasties, four osteotomies, two arthroscopic interventions and three unknown surgeries). To date no adverse outcome has been reported in this sub-group of patients following surgical intervention. One study  stated that 122 patients received further interventions, including surgical, pharmacological and complementary therapies, but did not give further information or stratify these by the therapy previously provided (Autologous conditioned serum;, Hyaluronic acid; or saline placebo). None of the trials specifically examined complications following subsequent procedures. Currently, several commercially available kits are utilised to prepare Autologous conditioned serum;/Autologous protein solution; from whole-blood samples of patients . In general, both Autologous conditioned serum; and Autologous protein solution; are prepared from autologous peripheral blood, the volume of which can vary between 10 and 60 ml depending on the manufacturer kit . The obtained blood sample is further conditioned by incubation with glass beads and centrifugation, leading to an increase in the production of Interleukin-1-receptor antagonist; as well as multiple other cytokines and growth factors . The predominant cytokine in Autologous conditioned serum; is Interleukin-1-receptor antagonist; with an average concentration of 2015 compared to 236 picograms per milliliter (pg/ml) in a basal blood sample . Additional components of Autologous conditioned serum; described include platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β), insulin-like growth factor (IGF), and fibroblast growth factor (FGF) amongst others . Hix et al.  reported the average concentration of Interleukin-1-receptor antagonist; in Autologous protein solution; to be 63,740 pg/ml whereas Woodell-May et al.  noted it to be 30,853 pg/ml. The wide variation in the Interleukin-1-receptor antagonist; levels of Autologous conditioned serum; and Autologous protein solution; reported by the investigators may be due a combination of the production kit and the 24-h incubation period used during the preparation of Autologous conditioned serum; . Various anabolic factors, including epidermal growth factor (EGF), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), IGF, TGF-β and the anti-inflammatory cytokines soluble tumor necrosis factor receptor type II (sTNF-RII), IL-4 and IL-10, have been noted in Autologous protein solution; . Broadly, both Autologous conditioned serum; and Autologous protein solution; are injectable solutions enriched in endogenous cytokines which help to restore joint homeostasis preventing degenerative changes in cartilage and bone . They offer a nonsurgical intraarticular treatment plan at the molecular level which incorporates the inhibition of IL-1b through the rapid induction of Interleukin-1-receptor antagonist;. It has been demonstrated that following interaction with medical-grade concentrator beads, the postconditioned serum level of Interleukin-1-receptor antagonist; is significantly elevated in relation to IL-1b . This relative increase alters the relative ratio of Interleukin-1-receptor antagonist; to IL-1b that is essential to restore homeostasis of joints affected by Osteoarthritis; . Whilst Interleukin-1-receptor antagonist; is a major component of these novel agents, their biochemical constituents contain various combinations of Platelet-rich plasma; and several growth factors present in the a granules of platelets . The aforementioned growth factors, which include TGF-β, PDGF, VEGF and IGF, have been shown to stimulate chondrocyte proliferation and augment articular cartilage metabolism . Whilst it is perceived that both Autologous conditioned serum; and Autologous protein solution; potentially mitigate the inflammatory cascade, the detailed pathways or mechanisms through which they perform these actions have not been fully described . There is paucity of robust data in the literature to evaluate the long-term benefits of autologous cell-free serum preparations in the management of knee Osteoarthritis;. This is vital for a condition such as Osteoarthritis; with multifactorial aetiology and treatments that influence the prognosis. Zarringam  et al. attempted to answer this question in the cohort of patients who had participated in a study  a decade earlier. It must be observed that in this study the composition of patient groups that reported the outcomes were based on certain assumptions thereby limiting the interpretation of the results. In their study Kon et al.  analysed the effect of the intraarticular administration of Autologous protein solution; on the size of bone marrow lesion and osteophytes over a 12-month period using the Magnetic resonance imaging OsteoArthritis Knee Score (MOsteoarthritis;KS). They observed that in the central zone of the lateral femoral condyle these lesions significantly improved in the study population. However, these changes were not statistically significant. Of note, neither the study protocol as listed on ClinicalTrials.gov , nor the ‘Methods’ section, specify how the magnetic resonance imaging (Magnetic resonance imaging;) images were planned to be analysed. Nonetheless, this an area for further investigation as it has been demonstrated that bone-marrow lesions contribute to significant symptoms in patients with knee Osteoarthritis; . The visual analogue scale (Visualanalogue scale;) and Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;) are the most commonly used outcome measures in the current literature (Tables 3 and 4). Some studies have used the Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score;) and the numeric rating scale (Numeric rating scale;) to report the results of injection of Autologous conditioned serum;/Autologous protein solution; (Table 5). However, there is lack of consensus on the outcome measures to report the results of this procedure. Some authors  have hypothesised that the preparation and administration of autologous cell-free serum preparations in patients with a raised C-reactive protein (Computed radiography;P) can yield suboptimal results due to the elevated levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1, TNF) in the same blood. There is considerable variation in the technique of intraarticular administration of Autologous conditioned serum;/Autologous protein solution; as highlighted earlier. Some authors  recommend aspiration of the knee prior to injection to reduce the risk of drug dilution. However, this step is not reported consistently in the other studies . Synovial fluid analysis is performed as a diagnostic investigation for knee conditions including crystal arthropathy . It is interesting to note that no study has analysed the aspirate fluid to determine the suitability of patients to this treatment procedure. Body mass index; has been reported to be an independent risk factor for the development  and progression of symptoms  in patients with knee Osteoarthritis;. Limb malalignment in the coronal/sagittal plane can contribute to knee-joint degeneration and wear . However, the current studies lack uniform data on these vital factors which predict the outcome of any intervention in this set of patients (Table 2). Another confounding factor in the studies investigating the effect of Autologous conditioned serum;/Autologous protein solution; is the inconsistent criteria for the use of type and dose of adjunctive analgesics in the study patients. This has to be considered whilst interpreting the results of the studies. It must be mentioned that the largest series (over 1000 patients) on the topic is available in the German literature  and is not included in the current review. Nonetheless, in this study no significant adverse outcomes were reported. No study in the literature has directly compared the cost of autologous cell-free serum preparations in the management of knee Osteoarthritis; with other treatment options. However, it must be mentioned that the cost implications of products like Autologous conditioned serum;/Autologous protein solution; can be inferred from various commercial sources. In their study, Barreto et al.  stated that Autologous conditioned serum; was a relatively cost-effective treatment compared to other injection treatments like Platelet-rich plasma;, stem cells or surgical procedures like total knee replacement. Orthokin® (Orthogen AG, Dusseldorf, Germany) has a stated cost of €150–750 for Autologous conditioned serum; therapy (≈ US$170–855) , whilst the nSTRIDE® Autologous protein solution; kit is quoted at £770 (≈ US$1016) excluding the adjunctive equipment . Synvisc® (Sanofi, Paris, France), a representative Hyaluronic acid; injection costs £68.33 (≈ US$87.85) per injection . By comparison, Kenalog® (Bristol-Myers Squibb, New York, NY, USA) containing triamcinolone acetonide has a British National Formulary indicative price of £1.49 (≈ US$1.92) per 40-mg vial . The cost of Platelet-rich plasma; therapy varies from £425–1200 (≈ US$545–1540)  whereas the guide price for hospital-based autologous stem-cell therapy for knee Osteoarthritis; may be higher at £7500 (≈ US$9626) . The overall quality of evidence supporting Autologous conditioned serum;/Autologous protein solution; use for Osteoarthritis; of the knee is poor, with considerable heterogeneity between trials and a paucity of large, well-conducted randomised controlled trials. There is some evidence that Autologous conditioned serum;/Autologous protein solution; is effective in the short-to-medium term (3–24 months) control of pain from Osteoarthritis; as well as improving range of movement and function. The rate of serious complications is low, and there is no evidence that future surgery is compromised by prior Autologous conditioned serum;/Autologous protein solution; injection. There have been no formal health economic analyses of Autologous conditioned serum;/Autologous protein solution; compared to more established intraarticular therapies. Limited data from the current studies would suggest that intraarticular administration of autologous cell-free serum preparations, such as Autologous conditioned serum;/Autologous protein solution;, in patients with knee Osteoarthritis; may improve pain and function with limited morbidity. Given the heterogenous data in the literature it may be useful to develop blood or synovial tests that may predict an efficacious result from Autologous conditioned serum;/Autologous protein solution;. However, high-quality clinical trials with stratified patient cohorts, longer follow-up duration and robust reporting of outcome measures are essential to improve the current understanding of the indications and clinical effectiveness of these products. Abbreviations Autologous protein solution;: Autologous protein solution; Autologous conditioned serum;: Autologous conditioned serum; Osteoarthritis;: Osteoarthritis; Intraarticular corticosteroid;: Intraarticular corticosteroid; Hyaluronic acid;: Hyaluronic acid; Interleukin-1;: Interleukin-1; Interleukin-1-receptor antagonist;: Interleukin-1-receptor antagonist; Interleukin-6;: Interleukin-6; Tumor necrosis factor-alpha;: Tumor necrosis factor-alpha; Macrophage chemotactic protein;: Macrophage chemotactic protein; Monokine induced by interferon;: Monokine induced by interferon; Oncostatin M;: Oncostatin M; Matrix metalloproteinases;: Matrix metalloproteinases; Platelet-rich plasma;: Platelet-rich plasma; Mesenchymal stem/stromal cells;: Mesenchymal stem/stromal cells; Standard deviation;: Standard deviation; Not reported;: Not reported; KellgrenLawrence;: KellgrenLawrence; AComputed radiography;: American College of Rheumatology criteria; Visualanalogue scale;: Visualanalogue scale; Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score;: Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;: Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; Short-Form 8 health-related quality of life;: Short-Form 8 health-related quality of life; KaplanMeier method;: KaplanMeier method; Control group;I-S: Clinical Global Impression of Severity; Patient Global Impression of Severity;: Patient Global Impression of Severity; D-Extra Short Musculoskeletal Functional Assessment;: D-Extra Short Musculoskeletal Functional Assessment; KSComputed radiography;S: Knee Society Clinical Rating Scale; Body mass index;: Body mass index; Numeric rating scale;: Numeric rating scale; Computed radiography;P: C-reactive protein; MOsteoarthritis;KS: Magnetic resonance imaging OsteoArthritis Knee Score