Osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) leads to degradation of articular cartilage, formation of osteophytes, decrease of joint space and degeneration of subchondral bone and is characterized as a chronic joint disease . Tese morphological alterations culminate in an increasing of the level of articular pain, loss of function, decrease in the range of motion and muscle weakness, impairing the quality of life of the patients . Te pathogenesis of Osteoarthritis; has relation with the increase of expression of specifc cytokines and immune system and, which contribute to cartilage degradation . It has been demonstrated that patients with Osteoarthritis; showed high levels of proinfammatory cytokines, which disturb the catabolism and anabolism processes, being responsible by infammation and consequence articular cartilage degeneration . In this context, the most important cytokines involved in this process are Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha (Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha;), interleukin-1β (Interleukin-1β;) and interleukin -6 (Interleukin-6;) . As result of degradation of cartilage, a release of protein specifc tissue fragments (neo-epitopes) in cleavage of type II collagen by matrix metalloproteinases (Matrix metalloproteinases;) can be observe, especially with analyze of biomarker as C-telopeptide of type II collagen (C-telopeptide of type II collagen;) . Based on this, the inhibition of interleukins (Interleukins; LLLT: Low-level laser therapy;) activity and analysis of C-telopeptide of type II collagen; as a biomarker of progression of cartilage lesion are related to radiological grades of cartilage degradation and may help to improved strategies to treat Osteoarthritis; . In this context, for Osteoarthritis;, one of the most common treatments is based on pharmacological intervention, mainly nonsteroidal and steroidal anti-infammatory drugs (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug;s) . However, the continuous use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug;s can lead to severe adverse efects, like gastrointestinal problems, and limited efcacy . In an attempt to attenuate these problems, alternative treatments have been studied including physical exercise programs, presenting positive efects on pain control, joint dysfunction and disability in patients with Osteoarthritis; . Furthermore, Castrogiovanni et al.  demonstrated that the moderate physical activity (Moderate physical activity;) signifcantly increased on the expression of anti-infammatory  biomarkers in the synovium of an Osteoarthritis;-induced rat model. Te exercise protocol has been shown to have an anti-infammatory efect, reducing levels of biomarkers like Interleukin-6; and TNFα and suggesting that cytokine reduction can be an efective contribution for modulating pain due to Osteoarthritis; . Another promising therapeutic intervention that has been showing positive efects on degradation of cartilage tissue in the presence of Osteoarthritis; is the low-level laser therapy (LLLT) or more recently, photobiomodulation (Photobiomodulation;) . It is well known that Photobiomodulation; produces stimulatory efect on healing and has the ability of modulating the infammatory process in diferent tissues, including cartilage . Chondroprotective efects, inhibition of cartilage degradation, decreases in the expression of chemotactic factors and infammatory cytokines and increase antioxidant enzyme levels have been observed in several experimental model of Osteoarthritis; in rats after Photobiomodulation; . Also, clinical trials have demonstrated that Photobiomodulation; is able of reducing pain, articular stifness, knee swelling, increasing the functional performance in knee Osteoarthritis; patients . Alghadir, et al.  showed that Photobiomodulation; (850 nm, 50mW, 6 J/point), applied in eight points on knee during 4 weeks/ two times per week, improved the functional capacity evaluated by Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;) in patients with knee Osteoarthritis; (grade II or III). Furthermore, some authors have been investigating the association of physical exercise and Photobiomodulation; on the management of Osteoarthritis; symptoms . De Paula Gomes et al.  observed that Photobiomodulation; nine diode cluster device (one 905 nm super-pulsed diode laser with, four 875 nm light-emitting diode (Light-emitting diode;) and four 640 nm Light-emitting diode;) associated to a physical exercise program had positive efects on reducing pain intensity in individuals with knee Osteoarthritis;. Similar fndings were observed by Alayat et al.,  and de Matos Brunelli Braghin et al., . Although all the positive efects of physical exercise programs for treatment of Osteoarthritis;, its association with Photobiomodulation; via a cluster device on the expression of Interleukins; LLLT: Low-level laser therapy; and biomarkers related to cartilage degradation in patients with Osteoarthritis; has not been studied yet. In this context, based on the need of determining a more appropriate therapeutic intervention to treat patients with Osteoarthritis;, the present study aimed to investigate the efects of the incorporation of Photobiomodulation; (via cluster) into a physical exercise program in serum infammatory biomarkers (Interleukin-1β;, Interleukin-6;, IL-8, IL-10 e Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha;), cartilage degradation biomarker (C-telopeptide of type II collagen;) and functional capacity (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;) in patients with knee Osteoarthritis;. Tis is a single-blind (participants) randomized controlled trial. Ethical approval (Ethics in Human Research Committee of the Federal University of São Paulo- approval number 1.368.478) and written informed consent (patients signed) were obtained. Te study was conducted at the Laboratory of Manual and Physical Resources and Balance Space – Fitness and Health from April 2018 to February 2020 and was logged with the Brazilian Clinical Trials Registry (RBR-7t6nzr). All participants were recruited via advertisements in local newspapers and social media. As eligibility criteria, patients had aged between 55 and 70 years, present symptomatic Osteoarthritis; in the previous 6 months, a diagnosis of unilateral or bilateral knee Osteoarthritis; according to the American College of Rheumatology and a radiographic confrmation of Osteoarthritis; (grades 2 or 3 of the Kellgren-Lawrence classifcation) . Te diagnosis of knee Osteoarthritis; was determined through an examination and the written opinion of a specialist in rheumatic diseases. Also, patients should present Body mass index; between 22 to 35 kg/ m2 , criteria established by Pan American Health Organization , more than 2 points on the Numeric Rating Pain Scale and should be classifed as active and irregularly active (physical activity with a frequency of at least 3 times a week or a minimum of 150 min per week, according to Criteria established by American College of Sports Medicine measures by the International Physical Activity Questionnaire – Short Version (International Physical Activity Questionnaire). Patients were excluded if they have: fbromyalgia and/ or any kind of orthopedic or rheumatic diseases that may prevent the physical exercise; surgery of the knee within the past 6 months or joint replacement. Also, patients with diagnoses of lung diseases, cardiologic alterations, uncontrolled hypertension, diabetes and had any contraindications to Photobiomodulation; as cancer. During the study, patients who missed two consecutive training sessions or more than 3 sessions along the treatment and who discontinued the pharmacological treatment for Osteoarthritis; started before the study were excluded. All patients met all inclusion criteria to participate in the study and signed a consent form. 42 patients were randomly allocated in Exercise sham photobiomodulation group;, Exercise active photobiomodulation group; or Control group; groups, as observed below: Exercise sham photobiomodulation group;: exercise+sham Photobiomodulation;, patients of this group performed the physical exercise program associated to Photobiomodulation; sham irradiation; Exercise active photobiomodulation group;: exercise+active Photobiomodulation;, patients of this group performed the physical exercise program associated to active Photobiomodulation; irradiation. Control group;: control group, patients of this group were not submitted to any kind of therapeutical intervention. A researcher, who was not involved in the experiment, conducted the randomization process by a simple drawing through a computer program that created a random table of numbers and put these numbers (1, 2 and 3) on opaque envelopes corresponding the group (Exercise sham photobiomodulation group;, Exercise active photobiomodulation group; and Control group;), respectively. Evaluation and reevaluation were performed by a researcher blinded to the experimental groups. Patients were also blinded to the mode of Photobiomodulation; application (sham or active). Te sample size calculation was performed using the general practitioner;ower 3.0.10 program with parameters: efects size of 0.25 , power observed of 0.75 and α=5%, considering Analysis of variance; model for three groups. Te required sample would be 12 patients for each treatment group Exercise sham photobiomodulation group;, Exercise active photobiomodulation group; or Control group; with a total of 36 patients. Each treatment group was started with 14 patients for possible dropout. After the initial evaluation, the following experimental procedures were made 48 h before and 48 h after interventions: blood collection and functional capacity analysis (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;). Participants of the control group were oriented to maintain the same habits and do not start any new treatment for the period of 8 weeks. Te functional capacity of lower limb and knee joint could be evaluated by using Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;). Te Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; is a self-administered reliable and valid questionnaire for patients with hip and knee Osteoarthritis; and used for assessment of pain, stifness joints, and physical activity of patients with hip and knee Osteoarthritis; . Te total score range of 0–96 and increased scores indicate a higher level of disability and lower level of quality of life. One biomedical collected 8 ml of peripheral blood samples from each patient before and after intervention period. After collected, the samples were centrifuged to prepare the plasma and stored at -80 °C in cryogenic tubes until in measurement. All the samples were sent to a certifcate laboratory for analyses. Te enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays;) kits were used to analyze the levels of C-telopeptide of type II collagen; (MyBioSource), Interleukin-1β; and IL-10 (Enzo Life Sciences, Inc.) and Interleukin-6;, IL-8 e Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha; (Fine Test®) following the procedures recommended by the manufacturer with automated pipetting. Both groups, Exercise sham photobiomodulation group; and Exercise active photobiomodulation group;, received the intervention excepted Control group; (waitlist). Te physical exercise protocol used was adapted from the study by Silva et al.  and Foley et al., . A protocol with warming (5 min on treadmill), 6 strength exercises (Hip abductors and adductors chair, Seated leg raise; – seated leg raise, Glute Bridge (Hip lift), Knee fexors and extensors chair) and stretching of major muscle groups was used for this purpose. Te patients were subjected to a physical exercise protocol twice a week (Monday and Wednesday) for 8 consecutive weeks performed individually and supervised by a physical therapist. Te application of the physical exercise protocol occurred according to 1-Repetition maximum. (repetition maximum) was determined each 2 weeks for prescription and load progression of the exercises. Te exercise consisted 3 sets of 8 repetitions each, with 60% of 1-Repetition maximum. and a rest interval of 2–3 min between sets based on American Geriatrics Society  for patients with Osteoarthritis;. A cluster with 7 diodes and an infrared wavelength (808 nm) was used in continuous mode, a 0.05cm2 spot size, 100mW power output, 2 W/cm2 power density, 91 J/cm2 energy density, and energy of 4 J per point/ 56 J per knee, 40 s per application based on recommendations of the World Association of Laser Terapy . Te cluster dimension is 150 mm(L)×100 mm( W)×55 mm(H), with 1 cm of distance between infrared diodes. After each training session for Exercise sham photobiomodulation group; and Exercise active photobiomodulation group;, respectively, sham or active Photobiomodulation; was applied on medial and lateral region of knee afected for unilateral Osteoarthritis; and applied on medial and lateral region of most afected knee for bilateral Osteoarthritis; (with knee positioned at 45 degrees of fexion) (Fig. 1). A researcher responsible to conduct the intervention turned on the device of Photobiomodulation; irradiation and immediately turned of the equipment to apply the sham Photobiomodulation;. To analyze the variables age, height, body mass, Body mass index;, Interleukin-1β;, Interleukin-6;, IL-8, IL-10, Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha;, C-telopeptide of type II collagen; and Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; at groups and evaluations, were performed the analysis of variance (Analysis of variance; one-way and two-way test) followed by Fisher’s post hoc test to identify the possible diferences among groups. Te adopted signifcant value was α<5%. Data were expressed as mean±standard deviation (Standard deviation;). Six patients (one from Exercise sham photobiomodulation group;, one from Exercise active photobiomodulation group; and four from Control group;) were excluded from the study due to the absence in 2 consecutive treatment sessions. Table 1 displays the baseline values of the outcome measures, anthropometric and demographic characteristics of the participants per group. Signifcant diference among Exercise sham photobiomodulation group; (p=0.024), Exercise active photobiomodulation group; (p=0.009) and Control group; were identifed for age. Te Exercise active photobiomodulation group; group showed higher values of Body mass index; compared to Control group; (p=0.04). Te percentage of the weight range for each group was 15.4% normal weight, 69.2% overweight and 15.4% obesity for Exercise sham photobiomodulation group;; 30.8% normal weigh, 38.4% overweight and 30.8% obesity for Exercise active photobiomodulation group; and 50% normal weigh, 40% overweight and 10% obesity for Control group;. Figure 2 shows the baseline and 8-week values of Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; total score. Te results demonstrated that there was signifcant diference between Exercise sham photobiomodulation group;, in the baseline compared to Exercise sham photobiomodulation group; in the 8-week (p=0.00006), between Exercise active photobiomodulation group; in the baseline and Exercise active photobiomodulation group; in the 8-week (p=0.00002) and between Exercise sham photobiomodulation group; and Control group; in the 8-week (p=0.011). Te results of Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; pain, stifness and function subscales are demonstrated in Table 2. Tere was signifcant decrease in all domains for Exercise sham photobiomodulation group; and Exercise active photobiomodulation group; compared baseline with 8-week evaluation (p<0,05) and signifcant decrease in Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; stifness subscale for Control group; (p=0.01). Tus, in baseline values, signifcant diference was found between the Exercise active photobiomodulation group; and Exercise sham photobiomodulation group; in Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; pain (p=0.04) and function (p=0,0001) subscales, and between Exercise active photobiomodulation group; and Control group; in Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; function subscale (p=0.02). Signifcant diference was found between the Exercise sham photobiomodulation group; and Control group; in Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; pain (p=0.02) and function (p=0.01) subscales 8-week. Figure 3 shows the baseline and 8-week values of the IL-10. It is possible to observe a statistical signifcant difference between the values found for Exercise active photobiomodulation group; in the baseline compared to the 8-week (p=0.047). Also, a signifcant diference was found between the values of Exercise active photobiomodulation group; and Control group; after the experimental period (p=0.0009). For Interleukin-1β; expression, there was a signifcant increase and diference between the values found in the baseline and in the 8-week for Control group; (p=0.016) (Fig. 4). Table 3 shows the values found in the baseline and in the 8-week of the pro-infammatory cytokines (Interleukin-6;, IL-8, Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha;) and cartilage degradation biomarkers (CTXII). For these variables, no signifcant diference was observed. Te results of this study demonstrated that the physical exercise program was able of increasing the functional capacity in the patients and, the associated treatments increased IL-10 expression compared to Control group; after the experimental period. In addition, Interleukin-1β; expression was higher for Control group; comparing the values in the baseline and 8-week and no diference for the others biomarkers were observed. Knee Osteoarthritis; is clinically associated with pain and loss of functional capacity, reaching 25% of the population over the age of 60 years . As described above, the lower Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; score demonstrated by the physical exercised patients (irradiated or not with Photobiomodulation;) is possibly related to the increase in muscle strength after the exercise program, improving the joint stability and the level of pain, and consequently, leading to the improvement of the functional capacity. Interestingly, Photobiomodulation; did not produce any extra positive efect in the exercised patients. Data from the literature do not corroborate the fndings of the present study demonstrating a superior efect measured by Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; in exercised and irradiated patients with Osteoarthritis; . Kheshie et al.  also observed a decrease in Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; subscales in patients with Osteoarthritis; treated with physical exercises and Photobiomodulation;. One hypothesis that can be raised is that the Photobiomodulation; parameters used in this study were not sufcient to produce an additional efect in the exercised patients. Furthermore, it is well known that IL-10 has an important anti-infammatory role in Osteoarthritis;, presenting a chondroprotective efect and, inhibiting chondrocyte apoptosis . Our results showed that the active Photobiomodulation; associated with physical exercises signifcantly increased IL-10 expression after the experimental period of treatment. Assis et al.,  also observed an increase of IL-10 expression in an experimental study, submitting rats with Osteoarthritis; to a program of aerobic exercises and Photobiomodulation; irradiation. All the positive efects may be related to the efects of physical exercises and Photobiomodulation; on infammatory markers. Physical exercises (and the related muscle contraction) produce a mechanotransduction stimulus, which maintain homeostasis of articular cartilage and contribute to attenuate Osteoarthritis; physiological events . As a consequence, physical exercise programs have anabolic, anti-infammatory and antioxidant efects in Osteoarthritis; patients . Moreover, many studies have demonstrated the anti-infammatory efects of Photobiomodulation; . Photobiomodulation; is able to modulate mRNA gene expression of IL-10 in acute and chronic infammatory phase and decreases the expression of this cytokine and consequently modulates the infammatory process of Osteoarthritis; . Taking together, the combined treatments presented a positive efect on IL-10 expression, which could represent a modulation of the infammatory process. Interleukin-1β; is considered one of the main cytokines in Osteoarthritis; development and the literature points out that the reduction of Interleukin-1β; production is an indication of the attenuation of cartilage degenerative process related to Osteoarthritis; . Control group; demonstrated a signifcant increase of Interleukin-1β; expression after the experimental period. Similarly, an experimental study using rats with Osteoarthritis; also observed a higher Interleukin-1β; expression in the control animals compared to the treated ones Control group; . In this context, it can be suggested that the treatments were able to positively kept stable the Interleukin-1β; expression. Interleukin-6;, a pro-infammatory cytokine has a catabolic activity in the pathogenesis of Osteoarthritis;. In the present study, no signifcant diference in Interleukin-6; expression was observed in both experimental periods for any group. Conversely, Aguiar et al.,  found a signifcant reduction in Interleukin-6; levels in patients with knee Osteoarthritis;, after a treatment of fexibility training and muscle strengthening, 3 times a week for 12 weeks. Furthermore, a systematic review concluded that Photobiomodulation; has no efect on the expression of the infammatory cytokine Interleukin-6; in Osteoarthritis; animals . However, experimental studies indicate that Photobiomodulation; is capable of modulating infammatory mediators such as Interleukin-6; in rats using an experimental model of joint infammation . Te controversial results may be related to Photobiomodulation; parameters or the frequency if the treatment. Furthermore, both treatments did not have any efect on IL-8 and Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha; cytokines concentration. IL-8 is a chemokine produced by various infammatory cells such as neutrophils, basophils, macrophages and T cells . Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha;, a pro-infammatory cytokine seems to be related to Interleukin-1β; (pro-infammatory cytokine) because are secreted by the same cells of the joint, in addition the increased presence of Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha; stimulates the synthesis of Interleukin-6; and IL-8 . Tese results corroborates with Helmark et al.,  who also observed that a resistance exercise training (25 sets of 10 repetitions at 60% of 1-Repetition maximum.) have not decreased the levels of IL-8 and Interleukin-6; of patients with knee Osteoarthritis;. Aguiar et al.,  have not observed changes in Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha; expression after 12 weeks of physical training using 60–80% of the maximum load of individuals with knee Osteoarthritis;. In addition, a study applied Photobiomodulation; immediately after total knee arthroplasty and observed a decrease of IL-8 expression . Moreover, a systematic review and meta-analysis points out that the Photobiomodulation; is capable of reduce considerably Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha; expression in models of joint infammation . Te results of the present study for IL-8 and Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha; cytokines can be justifed by type and modality of the load used in physical exercises once it is suggested that maximum training load seems to modulate the levels of these cytokine . C-telopeptide of type II collagen; is a biomarker released due to the degeneration of cartilage related to catabolic activity that leads to loss of type II collagen concentration, which is the most abundant protein of the cartilage matrix and proteoglycan matrix of cartilage . Tere was no statistically signifcant diference in C-telopeptide of type II collagen; levels in this study. Tese fndings do not corroborate those of with Nambi et al. , which demonstrated that a protocol of Photobiomodulation; (905 nm, super pulsed, 1.5 J per point, 12 J per knee) and exercise in patients with knee Osteoarthritis; during 4 weeks (twice a week) were able of inhibiting C-telopeptide of type II collagen;, MMP-3 (stromelysin), MMP-8 (collagenase-2), and MMP-13 (collagenase-3) expression. However, the study mentioned analyse the levels of C-telopeptide of type II collagen; fragments from urinary fraction and our study evaluated from the serum fraction of peripheral blood samples and this diference in analyse can justify the results of the present study. In addition, it may be suggested that Photobiomodulation; application, through a cluster device constitutes an advantage for treating patients with knee Osteoarthritis;, allowing the irradiation of a larger area and optimizing the treatment . Although some positive efects of the treatments in the patients in this study, some limitations can be raised as a minor number of patients in sample size. It would be extremely important to assess the presence of infammatory markers in the synovial fuid, which would increase the accuracy of their analysis, as well as the possibility of correlating them with symptomatic variables. Also, there is an absence of a follow-up in order to provide information about the maintenance of results over time in these patients. Te results of this study demonstrated that the physical exercise program in association with Photobiomodulation; was capable of increasing IL-10 levels, and the physical exercise program improved the function capacity. However, Photobiomodulation; did not promote an additional efect to the positive efects of exercise in improving pro-infammatory and cartilage degradation biomarkers, and functional capacity in women with knee Osteoarthritis;. Tus, more studies need to be carried out, using other parameters, since the literature demonstrates heterogeneity in the parameters of treatment with Photobiomodulation; when associated with physical exercise, for the consolidation of an intervention protocol for patients with knee Osteoarthritis;. Abbreviations Osteoarthritis;: Osteoarthritis; Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha;: Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha; Interleukin-1β;: Interleukin-1β; Interleukin-6;: Interleukin -6; Matrix metalloproteinases;: Matrix metalloproteinases; C-telopeptide of type II collagen;: C-telopeptide of type II collagen; non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug;s: Nonsteroidal and steroidal anti-infammatory drugs; Moderate physical activity;: Moderate physical activity; Interleukins; LLLT: Low-level laser therapy;: Interleukins; LLLT: Low-level laser therapy; Photobiomodulation;: Photobiomodulation; Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;: Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index; Light-emitting diode;: Light-emitting diode; Exercise sham photobiomodulation group;: Exercise sham photobiomodulation group; Exercise active photobiomodulation group;: Exercise active photobiomodulation group; Control group;: Control group; Analysis of variance;: Analysis of variance; Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays;: Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays; Seated leg raise;: Seated leg raise; Repetition maximum.: Repetition maximum.