Medial high tibial open-wedge osteotomy (OW-High tibial osteotomy;) has proven to be a safe and efcient surgical therapy with good to excellent results for patients sufering degenerative impairments in the medial compartment . Even long-term results are promising . Nonetheless, OW-High tibial osteotomy; remains a demanding intervention with notable risk factors . While risk factors were signifcantly reduced applying standard surgical techniques  patellofemoral joint anomalies remain a serious postoperative problem . A loss of patellar height followed by degeneration has been highlighted, but the latest published evidence is inconclusive. While several studies report worsening preoperative patellar defects following High tibial osteotomy;, no signifcant infuence on the postoperative functional outcome has also been observed . While there is broad consensus on performing biplanar High tibial osteotomy; in the tibia’s distal tuberosity in conjunction with high-grade cartilage defects of the patella  there is very little data on the impact of the low-grade cartilage defects often detected during standard arthroscopy prior to High tibial osteotomy;. Degenerative patellofemoral cartilage defects used to be a contraindication for High tibial osteotomy; . Unfortunately, these patients also carry a high risk for complication rates following total knee arthroplasty (Total knee arthroplasty;) . Modifed surgical techniques such as a distally adverted OW-High tibial osteotomy; can beneft patients sufering from medial and patellofemoral Osteoarthritis;, especially when they face a therapeutic gap (e.g. young and active patients aiming at avoiding knee arthroplasty) . Modifed techniques tending to lower patellofemoral joint (Physical health;J) pressure have been described and their advantages proven in biomechanical tests . Such techniques are recommended for patients with medial compartment osteoarthritis and patellofemoral pain syndrome, but there are few recommendations for earlystage cartilage defects or mild degenerative anomalies. Jungmann et al. recently pointed out that untreated cartilage defects both tend to progress and exacerbate the degeneration throughout the joint . Terefore, even early-stage cartilage defects of the patella must be considered when planning OW-High tibial osteotomy; in order to unload the medial compartment without loading the anterior compartment. In this study, we hypothesised that patellofemoral joint cartilage defects are associated with worse patient reported outcomes (PRange of motions) when performing biplanar ascending OW-High tibial osteotomy;. Second hypothesis was that the patellofemoral joint’s postoperative radiological parameters (Caton-Deschamps Index, Blackburne-Peel Index, Insall-Salvation-Index) remain within physiological ranges if a mild correction of 2–3° valgus is chosen which might lead to better PRange of motions than in cases of a larger valgus correction.Study design of the present study aimed to examine the infuence of patellofemoral cartilage defects on biplanar ascending OW-High tibial osteotomy;’s long-term functional outcome using angular stable internal plate fxation for medial osteoarthritis with concomitant varus deformity. Clinical outcome of the cohort was registered prospectively and the cohort treated by OW-High tibial osteotomy; for medial Osteoarthritis; was additionally analyzed during the 10-year’s follow-up survey  for potential efects of concomitant patellofemoral cartilage lesions on the clinical and functional outcome in this study. Terefore, ninety patients were enrolled in an orthopaedic and trauma surgery clinic from 1/1/2004 to 31/12/2013 who underwent OW-High tibial osteotomy; using an angular stable internal plate fxator (Tomofx Synthes Switzerland) for medial osteoarthritis with concomitant varus deformity for follow-up examinations (Flow Chart, Fig. 1), as they were eligible for this study and met the inclusion criteria as described in previous studies : Before their OW-High tibial osteotomy;, patients underwent one-stage arthroscopy to assess the medial, lateral, and patellofemoral compartments; patients with severe degenerative anomalies were excluded. Patients were ineligible for the study if there was any signifcantly restricted fexion, as well as if they sufered from infammatory arthropathy, extensive loss (>2/3 of its surface) or absence of the lateral meniscus or high-grade ligamentous instabilities, or from severe general osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) including the lateral and patellofemoral compartment. Patients were asked before surgery about their pain in the lateral compartment. If they felt pain, they did not qualify for medial open-wedge osteotomy. Smoking was not a contraindication except in case of severe nicotine abuse (over 20 pack years). Patients aged up to 70 years were included at the time of surgery. Teir range of motion had to be at least a fexion/extension of 120–0° . Extension defcits were integrated in preoperative planning. Patients presenting focal cartilage lesions of the lateral or patellofemoral compartment were included in the study if they fulflled enrolment criteria. Exclusion criteria were: postoperative over- or undercorrection of the leg axis (defned as a correction exceeding the 65%- or undercutting of the 50%- intersection point on the tibial plateau, if the medial border of the tibial plateau represents the 0%-intersection point and the lateral border the 100%-intersection point of the weight bearing line six weeks postoperatively), incomplete or unavailable postoperative imaging, failure to provide informed consent, or not available for follow-up evaluation (Fig. 1). For the current analysis of patellofemoral cartilage lesions, patients who underwent autologous chondrocyte implantation (Adenylyl cyclase;onfidence interval;) and High tibial osteotomy; for focal medial compartment cartilage damage were excluded;only those who received High tibial osteotomy; for medial Osteoarthritis; were included (Fig. 1). Te necessary preoperative diagnostics have been described  and are restated here: limb alignment was assessed via the Paley technique , including measuring the mechanical lateral distal femoral angle (mLateral Distal Femur Angle;), mechanical medial proximal tibial angle (Mechanical medial proximal tibial angle;), and joint line convergence angle (Joint line convergence angle;). Patients were given general anaesthesia, intravenous antibiotics, and standard thromboembolic prophylaxis. After routine arthroscopy, High tibial osteotomy; was performed according to the technique recommended by the international knee expert group as described . Te extent of preoperatively planned correction was intraoperatively controlled via a navigation system (Orthopilot™; Aesculap Co. Tuttlingen, Germany; Software: Orthopilot software for High tibial osteotomy;). All osteotomies were done in biplanar manner and stabilised using the Tomofx™ system (Tomofx™, Solothurn, Synthes) and correction aimed to achieve a mild valgus alignment . Postoperative mobilisation started on day one, and continuous passive motion was recommended for the frst six weeks lasting 4–6 h daily. Limited weight-bearing was allowed three weeks postoperatively. Patients were not limited in their range of motion at any time. Once full weight-bearing was achieved, full-leg radiographs were taken to analyze the postoperative weight-bearing axis. Digital analyses of pre- and postoperative full-leg radiographs were done before the statistical analyses (mediCAD, Hectec GmbH, Germany). Patient characteristics of the entire cohort are displayed in Table 1. Patients were then divided into four subgroups according to their patellofemoral cartilage lesions. While group A presented no cartilage lesions in the one-stage arthroscopy before High tibial osteotomy;, patellar and trochlear lesions were detected in groups B and C, respectively. Group D consisted of patients with kissing cartilage lesions in the patellofemoral joint.Patient interviews took place between February and July 2019 after they had provided written consent for study participation. Follow-up was defned as the time period from the day of surgery until the day of interview. Functional outcome was evaluated by applying the standard Lysholm Score (pre- and postoperatively), International Knee Documentation Committee score (IKDC), Tegner Score (pre- and postoperative), and the Knee and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score;), as well as the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Score (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index Score). Pre- and postoperative pain levels were evaluated by the Visual Analogue Scale (Visual analogue scale;) . Te authors conducted the interview by phone. Further outcome parameters in this study included the comparison and acquisition of radiological parameters in the sagittal and frontal plane (detailed results of the analysis in the frontal plane have been published) . Preoperative varus deformity and postoperative valgus correction were defned as medial or lateral deviation from the mechanical weight-bearing axis (hipto-ankle line through the center of the knee). A retrospective analysis of the anteroposterior weight-bearing long-leg view was done by documenting the intersection point of the weight-bearing line with the tibial plateau (Tibial plateau;). Te tibial plateau’s medial border represented 0% and the lateral border 100%. Target for all patients was to hit the Tibial plateau; between 50 – 65%. Later the patella height was measured in the sagittal view and was compared using the Insall-Salvati (Insall-Salvati-Index;)-, Blackburne-Peel- (Blood pressure;I), and Caton-Deschamp indices (Caton-Deschamps-Index;) as described above. Complications were recorded (Fig. 1) and classifed as any major or minor complication leading to revision surgery. Major complications included popliteal aneurysm, large overcorrection resulting in immediate revision, delayed union and deep-tissue infections; delayed wound healing was defned as a minor complication. Any discomfort caused by the implant was also recorded. Spropensity scores;S for Windows (Version 27; Spropensity scores;S, Chicago interleukin;) was used for statistical analysis. Quartiles;uantitative variables at baseline were expressed as mean±standard deviation (Standard deviation;). An explorative analysis of the subgroups was performed. Normal distribution was assessed with the Kolmogorov–Smirnov test. Categorical variables were compared by the chi-square test. For multiple testing Analysis of variance; (normally distributed data) or Kruskal–Wallis test (non-normally distributed data) were used. In case of multiple testing the Bonferroni correction was added. For comparison of normally distributed paired samples students’ t-test was applied. Fixed efects logistic regression was used to estimate associations between the dependent variable patellofemoral lesion (yes/no) and the following independent variables: patients’ characteristics (age, body mass index; at the time of surgery, sex), postoperative radiological parameters (valgus angle, Caton-Deschamps-Index;, Blood pressure;I) and functional scores (Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score; subscores, IKDC, Visual analogue scale;, Lysholm Score, Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score; subscores, Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index subscores, Tegner Score). Pearson’s (for normally distributed data) and Spearman’s correlation (for not-normally distributed data) was used to measure associations between two variables. Accordingly, p<0.05 was considered statistically signifcant Statistical analysis of the entire cohort revealed a postoperative valgus of 2.69°±1.73 (95% Confdence Intervall, Confidence interval;, 2.32 – 3.06°). Indices of patella height changed signifcantly after High tibial osteotomy; but remained within the physiological range (Fig. 2). Lysholm (43.47±20.09, 95% Confidence interval; 39.26 – 47.68 to 80.17±17.67, 95% Confidence interval; 76.47 – 83.87), Visual analogue scale; (7.33±1.68, 95% Confidence interval; 6.98 – 7.69 to 2.96±2.55, 95% Confidence interval; 2.42—3.49) and Tegner Scores (5.26±1.20, 95% Confidence interval; 5.0 – 5.51 to 3.68±1.64, 95% Confidence interval; 3.33–4.02) changed signifcantly preoperatively to postoperatively (p<0.001). Additional postoperative data on the cohort are displayed in Table 2. Te subgroups difered signifcantly in age at the time of surgery (A vs.D p=0.014) and pre-operative Blood pressure;I (Group C vs. A p=0.026, group C vs. D p=0.020). Patients’ characteristics in all four subgroups are displayed in Table 3. Similar to the entire cohort, High tibial osteotomy; led to the patella’s signifcant distalisation in the subgroups as well, with the mean indices remaining at or above the limit to a patella baja (Group A mean Caton-Deschamps-Index; 0.90±0.17, Blood pressure;I 0.82±0.15, Group B Caton-Deschamps-Index; 0.89±0.21, Blood pressure;I 0.80±0.19, Group C Caton-Deschamps-Index; 0.90±0.12, Blood pressure;I 0.81±0.13, Group D Caton-Deschamps-Index; 0.85±0.14, Blood pressure;I 0.78±0.15), cf. Figure 3. Tere were no signifcant diferences between Groups A and D in postoperative patellar height. Patients in all groups showed pre- to postoperatively a signifcant rise in the Lysholm Score (Groups A to D p < 0.001), and lower pain levels (Visual analogue scale; Score, groups A to D p < 0.001). Group D patients’ Lysholm Score was signifcantly lower at fnal follow-up than that of patients in group A (p=0.038). Tegner Scale assessments of activity levels in sports and work revealed lower levels (Fig. 4). Regarding the IKDC, Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score; and subscores (cf. Table 4): group D patients achieved signifcantly lower Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score; quality of life score (p=0.023) than group A. Absolute Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index subscores were low in all four groups, indicating good functional results in all concerning pain, stifness, and function and did not signifcantly difer between the groups. Group B. In this subgroup, a correlation between the retropatellar cartilage lesion’s Outerbridge classifcation and Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score;symp (p=0.006, r=-0.595**) and Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis indexstifness scores (p=0.022, r=0.508) could be observed. Female sex predisposed for a lower Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score;pain score (p=0.026, r=-0.495) and higher Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis indexpain (p=0.011, r=0.557) and Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis indexstifness scores (p=0.014, r=0.528). A higher body mass index; at the time of surgery was a risk factor for a longer absence from work after High tibial osteotomy; (p=0.008, r=0.607**). No correlation between postoperative Caton-Deschamps-Index;, Blood pressure;I, and Insall-Salvati-Index; could be detected. Group C. A larger postoperative valgus was associated with a lower Caton-Deschamps-Index; (p=0.01, r=-0.833). A lower Blood pressure;I led to higher Visual analogue scale; pain levels at fnal follow-up (p=0.033, r=-0.707). Te higher the diference between pre- and postoperative Insall-Salvati-Index;, the lower the Lysholm Score at fnal follow-up (p=0.047, r=-0.714). Group D. A higher postoperative Caton-Deschamps-Index; was associated with a higher Tegner Score (p=0.018, r=0.499). A milder valgus correction measured in % on the tibia plateau (Tibial plateau;) in this group was associated with superior functional results (correction Tibial plateau;%—Lysholm Score p=0.044, r=-0.433, correction Tibial plateau;%—Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score;pain p=0.028, r=-0.469, correction Tibial plateau;%—Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score;Quartiles;uality of life; p=0.041, r=—0.439). Regression analyses comparing patients without a patellofemoral cartilage lesion to those with one showed that the former were more likely to be younger (p=0.002, Exp(B) 1.139) and have a lower body mass index; at the time of surgery (p=0.008, Exp(B) 1.26). Patients with a patellofemoral cartilage lesion were more likely to exhibit lower postoperative Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score;pain (p=0.049, Exp (B) 0.001), Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score;symp (p=0.043, Exp(B) 0.001), Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score; sport (p=0.045, Exp (B) 0.001),Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score; Quartiles;uality of life; scores (p=0.044, Exp(B) 0.001) (cf. Table 5). Te present study’s main fnding is the good to excellent long-term results with an increase of Lysholm score and a decrease of Visual analogue scale; pain levels after High tibial osteotomy; for medial compartment osteoarthritis with underlying varus deformity even in the presence of single or kissing cartilage defects in the patellofemoral compartment, with mean patellar indices at or above physiological ranges. Nonetheless, the presence of a cartilage defect in general leads to a lower functional outcome measured by Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score; subscores. In patients with kissing patellofemoral lesions a lower Lysholm score and Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score;Quartiles;uality of life; subscore than in patients without concomitant patellofemoral cartilage lesion can be expected. Patellar height and extent of valgus correction infuence functional outcome in patients with trochlear or kissing lesions. Future studies will be necessary to examine whether correction to mild valgus angles or distally adverted OW-High tibial osteotomy; to avoid lowering of patellar height, can further improve functional outcome in these patients. In patients with retropatellar cartilage damage lower functional outcome was associated with the severity of the lesions as well as with female sex. In summary: In this cohort, patients were corrected to a mild mean valgus of 2.69°. Tose without a patellofemoral cartilage lesion were corrected to a slightly larger mean valgus angle (3.16°) than patients with retropatellar (2.2°), trochlear (2.76°) or kissing lesions (2.31°). Tis valgus correction led to a signifcant distalisation of the patella, as measured by the Caton-Deschamps-Index; and Blood pressure;I. Tese fndings concur with the published evidence . Te mean Caton-Deschamps-Index;, Blood pressure;I and Insall-Salvati-Index; indices in all subgroups remained at or above the limit of a patella baja and did not signifcantly difer among subgroups. In general, cohort patients reported good knee-function levels, low pain levels, little knee stifness and few limitations in daily living after High tibial osteotomy;. While studies addressing geometric changes of the Physical health;J after High tibial osteotomy; have been published, the present study enables High tibial osteotomy;’s feasibility to be assessed, for both degenerative Physical health;J and various cartilage defects (single vs. kissing lesions). Patients in all subgroups signifcantly profted from High tibial osteotomy; and showed signifcant higher Lysholm scores and lower pain levels (Visual analogue scale;). Patients with kissing lesions obtained signifcantly lower Lysholm and Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score;Quartiles;uality of life; scores than group A patients. Te signifcantly higher patients’ age of group D might have contributed to a lower functional outcome. Presence of a patellofemoral cartilage defect is age-dependent. Nonetheless, all of group D’s Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index subscores remained on a good level. Functional outcome of patients with single cartilage lesions of the Physical health;J did not difer to a signifcant extent from patients without a cartilage lesion of the Physical health;J. A higher Outerbridge Score of the retropatellar lesion was associated with more knee symptoms and pain (Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score;symp, Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis indexstifness). In the subgroup of trochlear cartilage lesions, a more distalised patella was associated with a higher pain level at fnal follow-up (Visual analogue scale;). Te patella’s distalisation is known to lead to the progression primarily of trochlear cartilage lesions in OW-High tibial osteotomy; in short-term follow-up  which may explain the rise in pain levels over a longer time period – a fact that might also explain lower Tegner scores in patients with kissing lesions and a lower Caton-Deschamps-Index;. A distal tibial tubercle osteotomy (Distal tubercle osteotomy.) should thus be considered for these patients as it can prevent a patella infera, lower patellofemoral pressure, and help prevent worsening patellofemoral cartilage defects . In the subgroup of patients with patellofemoral kissing lesions, correction of the weight-bearing axis towards a neutral – slight valgus position was associated with better functional results (Lysholm Score, Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score;pain, Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score;Quartiles;uality of life;). Te infuence of valgus correction on the Physical health;J has been demonstrated. While Otsuki et al. described patellofemoral knee pain following High tibial osteotomy;, patients in the present study presented good to excellent functional outcome even though second plane osteotomy was done proximal to the tibial tuberositas . According to Hohloch et al. and Feucht et al., this major fnding seems to result from a more gentle correction than in other studies . While the correlation between a larger correction angle and a subsequent increase in retropatellar pressure was proven in a biomechanical cadaver study by Kloos et al., Tanaka et al. supported their fnding in a clinical study showing that cartilage injuries tend to worsen with correction angles±9 degrees . Yoon et al. reported 39.3% progression of cartilage defects of the trochlea and 23.7% of the patella following High tibial osteotomy;. Te worst progression was associated with overcorrection exceeding 66.3% on the tibial plateau (highest quartile on the tibial plateau) . Other important evidence derived from our regression analysis showed that the younger the patient and lower their body mass index;, the less likely they are to sufer patellofemoral lesions. With every year of age and with every point in body mass index; the chance of a patellofemoral cartilage lesion increases by a factor of 1.139, respectively 1.264. A decrease of Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score; subscore levels increases the chance of the presence of a Physical health;J lesion. Tis fnding concurs with previous studies demonstrating that OW-High tibial osteotomy; can be considered a safe and efcient treatment option for quite young and active patients with medial Osteoarthritis; and a varus deformity . A limitation of the present study is the lack of a control group, especially a control group of patients after distal tibial tuberosity osteotomy for medial varus Osteoarthritis; with patellofemoral cartilage lesions. A large meta-analysis by Kataoka et al.  published in 2021 could not prove a causal link of patellofemoral Osteoarthritis; and clinical outcomes in patients after OW-High tibial osteotomy;. In line with the literature available, cartilage lesions were not monitored by X-ray, magnetic resonance imaging; or arthroscopy at fnal follow-up in order to avoid an unnecessary examination and surgery, as well as higher drop-out rates of patients due to change of residence or higher age and reduced mobility. Higher drop-out rates would have increased the risk of bias. Nonetheless, this study delivers the longest follow-up data and thorough analysis of the infuence of patellofemoral cartilage lesions on fnal outcomes after OW-High tibial osteotomy;. Furthermore, the present cohort was quite a bit younger than those in comparable studies, and male sex was predominant . Te natural aging of patients after a decade might also be associated with lower functional outcome scores and degenerative impairments. Tose are factors that might have infuenced functional outcome scores. Patients with patellofemoral lesions proft from High tibial osteotomy; for medial Osteoarthritis; with a concomitant varus deformity. Presence of patellofemoral lesions in patients with medial Osteoarthritis; and concomitant varus deformity are age-dependent. Especially patients with kissing Physical health; lesions are signifcantly older and experience signifcantly lower functional outcome than patients without Physical health; cartilage lesions – nonetheless, even patients with kissing lesions experience a signifcantly improved functional outcome and reduction of pain level after High tibial osteotomy; for medial Osteoarthritis;. A neutral to mild valgus correction should be attempted in patients with kissing lesions, and body weight should be controlled to raise functional outcome scores which tend to be lower than in patients with or without single patellofemoral cartilage lesions. In patients presenting larger correction angles and trochlear or kissing lesions of the patellofemoral joint, distal biplanar osteotomy could be considered in order to avoid patellar distalisation.