Total knee arthroplasty (Total knee arthroplasty;) is the only defnitive surgical treatment for advanced knee osteoarthritis (KOsteoarthritis;) . Artifcial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (Machine learning;) modeling is a new decision aid tool used in KOsteoarthritis; diagnosis, patient selection, pre-Total knee arthroplasty; planning, prediction of disease progression, and estimation of treatment outcomes. Te tool is improving with technological advancements and larger datasets but also requires extensive validation. AI is a broad term referring to technologies that simulate human intelligence to automate tasks with high accuracy and precision. Tere are diferent methods to achieve this goal, such as designing algorithms with explicit rules and instructions or employing more “intelligent” algorithms such as those developed through machine learning. Machine learning; is a branch of AI involving algorithms that automatically “learn” from data, with incremental optimization and improvements in accuracy during the training process . Deep learning is a form of Machine learning; that does not require a labelled or structured dataset . For example, the use of artifcial neural networks (utilizing the layers of increasing complexity and abstraction for information processing) to “learn” the important features of a model without human input . AI can handle very large, complex datasets, and generate predictions to improve accuracy and efciency of healthcare decisions, such as KOsteoarthritis; and Total knee arthroplasty; . Machine learning; algorithms have also been used to develop models to assist with pre-Total knee arthroplasty; planning and predict the value metrics of Total knee arthroplasty;, such as predicting implant size , reconstructing three-dimensional CT data of lower limb to facilitate robotic-assisted Total knee arthroplasty; , and assisting with component positioning and alignment . Machine learning; potentially improves surgical precision and reduce the cost of manual labor. Regarding value metrics, Machine learning; methods have been used to predict the length of hospital stay, hospitalization charges, and discharge disposition. It impacts the economic burden of Total knee arthroplasty; and thus potentially afects decisions on payment models in healthcare settings . Tis review aimed to summarize the existing evidence and highlight recent developments of AI and Machine learning; in diagnosis of KOsteoarthritis;, prediction of the need for and outcomes of Total knee arthroplasty;. We searched PubMed and EMBASE databases for articles published in peer-reviewed journals between January 1, 2010 and May 31, 2021. We searched for the following terms: ‘AI’, ‘machine learning’, ‘knee’, ‘osteoarthritis’, and ‘arthroplasty’. We selected studies focusing on the use of AI in diagnosis of KOsteoarthritis;, predicting the need for Total knee arthroplasty;, and predicting outcomes of Total knee arthroplasty;. We excluded nonEnglish language articles and the articles with no English translation. A reviewer screened the articles for the relevance to the research questions and strength of evidence. Te search produced 136 individual results, among which a total of 22 papers were included in the narrative synthesis following screening against inclusion/exclusion criteria (Table 1). Only one study was externally validated by testing the model using a dataset not used during model training to assess model performance and generalizability. Te most commonly reported metric among the published articles was the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (Area under curve;), which evaluates the ability of an algorithm in discriminating between the individuals who experienced and those who did not experience the outcomes immediately after surgery and thereafter. Area under curve; values ranged from 0.5 (indicating performance equal to a random predictor) to 1 (indicating a perfect predictor). Other reported metrics included sensitivity, specifcity, Kappa coefcient (a measure of inter-rater reliability, where a value of 0 indicates no agreement while a value of 1 indicates perfect agreement), and positive and negative predictive values. Te characteristics, performance, strengths, and weaknesses of AI algorithms are summarized in Table 2. AI algorithms used to predict the outcomes of Total knee arthroplasty; are shown in Table 3. Diagnosis and predicting the need for Total knee arthroplasty; Multiple machine learning models have been developed for radiological diagnosis and severity grading of KOsteoarthritis; (based on the most widely used the Kellgren-Lawrence Classifcation System) (Table 2). Tiulpin et al.  developed an automatic grading model based on the Deep Siamese Convolutional Neural Network. Te model was frst trained using 18,376 knee radiographs from the Multicenter Osteoarthritis Study (a longitudinal, prospective, observational study of KOsteoarthritis; in older Americans), and further tuned for hyperparameters using 2,957 KOsteoarthritis; radiographs from the Osteoarthritis Initiative (a multicenter, longitudinal, prospective observational study of knee osteoarthritis), and fnally tested on 5,960 randomly selected KOsteoarthritis; radiographs from the Osteoarthritis Initiative that are unseen during the training process. Te model achieved a kappa coefcient of 0.83 and an average multiclass accuracy of 67%, indicating excellent agreement (comparable to intra- and inter-rater reliability by arthroplasty surgeons) . Te key beneft of this model is the provision of probability distributions for each Kellgren-Lawrence grade prediction. In clinical practice, the model may be used to select the closest Kellgren-Lawrence grade in ambiguous cases. Similarly, Norman et al.  used DenseNet neural network architectures to develop an automatic Kellgren-Lawrence grading model. Saliency maps revealed important radiographic features in algorithm’s decision-making, such as osteophytes and joint space narrowing. For detecting Kellgren-Lawrence grades, the sensitivity and specifcity of the model were 69–86% and 84–99%, respectively. Te kappa coefcient was 0.83, which was the same as the model proposed by Tiulpin et al. . Most existing algorithms focus on the radiographic diagnosis of KOsteoarthritis; or rely heavily on radiographic information as candidate predictors of Total knee arthroplasty;. Tis may be due to substantially increased imaging data availability following the recent creation of public datasets such as the Osteoarthritis Initiative. In a recent study, Leung et al.  developed a deep learning model that directly predicted the need for Total knee arthroplasty; based on knee radiographs. Tis model demonstrated superior performance in predicting Total knee arthroplasty; than the conventional binary outcome models based on the Kellgren-Lawrence or Osteoarthritis Research Society International grades. Te deep learning model used additional image-based information that might not be captured by simple numerical grading systems . Te discrepancies between radiologic and clinical severity of KOsteoarthritis; have been widely reported . Clinical diagnosis is typically made according to American College of Rheumatology criteria, taking into account patient age, symptoms, physical examination, and radiographic assessments . Te decision for surgery is driven primarily by symptom severity instead of radiological fndings. Tus, the Machine learning; algorithms (automate Kellgren-Lawrence grading or predict Total knee arthroplasty; using imaging data alone) are limited in clinical decision-making. Nevertheless, the Machine learning;-based studies mentioned above ofer insight to the development of radiograph-based prediction models using diferent machine learning approaches and may serve as a stepping stone to future studies that include additional clinical parameters, which may be more suitable for clinical decision-making support. In 2020, Heisinger et al.  frst designed an Machine learning; prediction model by investigating knee symptomatology (e.g., pain, function, and quality of life), KellgrenLawrence grading, and socioeconomic and demographic factors four years before Total knee arthroplasty;. Te longitudinal analyses showed that signifcant worsening in knee symptomatology before Total knee arthroplasty; was the most important factor in decision making for Total knee arthroplasty;, compared to the radiographic progression of KOsteoarthritis;. Te artifcial neural network can predict patients who may undergo Total knee arthroplasty; in the next two years with an accuracy of 80%, with a positive predictive value of 84%, and a negative predictive value of 73%. El-Galaly et al.  were the frst to attempt to develop a clinical Machine learning; algorithm to predict early revision Total knee arthroplasty; using preoperative data. Te models were trained on the Danish Knee Arthroplasty Registry. Patient age, postfracture osteoarthritis, and weight were statistically signifcant preoperative factors. Nevertheless, the authors were unable to develop a clinically useful model based on preoperative information . Hence, further study is needed to identify clinically useful predictors of revision Total knee arthroplasty;. Te improvement following Total knee arthroplasty; is commonly assessed using the patient-reported outcome measures with or without accompanying “minimally clinically important improvement”, i.e., the minimum beneft assessed with the patient-reported outcome measures . Huber et al.  used Machine learning; algorithms to predict postoperative improvement in the patient-reported outcome measures. Te models were trained and tested using the National Health Service data (130,945 observations), and the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of the best performing models was approximately 0.86 (visual analogue scale) and 0.70 (Q score, i.e., sum of the Oxford Hip Score and Oxford Knee Score) for Total knee arthroplasty;. Te results showed that preoperative visual analogue scale, Q score, and specifc Q score dimensions were the most important predictors of postoperative patient-reported outcome measures . Harris et al.  developed another model to predict post-Total knee arthroplasty; 1-year achievement of Minimum clinically important diference and demonstrated fair discriminative ability for the prediction of some, but not all, Patient-reported outcome measures included. Further development of similar machine learning algorithms for routine patient care could potentially assist postoperative outcome prediction. AI can be used to predict post-Total knee arthroplasty; patient dissatisfaction. Kunze et al.  developed a random forest algorithm which demonstrated an Area under curve; of 0.77 in identifying patients most likely to experience dissatisfaction. Farooq et al.  found that models built using Machine learning; achieved signifcantly higher Area under curve; than using binary logistic regression on the same dataset (0.81 Versus; WOMAC: Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index 0.60). Given that a signifcant 20% of patients are dissatisfed following Total knee arthroplasty; and that existing statistical models cannot fully explain the reason for dissatisfaction , supervised machine learning models ofer an alternative approach to automate the search for predictors of patient dissatisfaction. Te major complications of Total knee arthroplasty; are bleeding, thromboembolism, vascular injury, etc.  Many risk prediction calculators exist, such as the American College of Surgeons-National Surgical Quality Improvement Program universal surgical risk calculator and other arthroplasty-specifc calculators . Tese conventional calculators have substantial weaknesses, such as poor accuracy, limited generalizability to external datasets, and preoperative use restrictions due to requiring intraoperative data as input variables . Machine learning; models ofer an alternative approach to predict postoperative complications. Harris et al.  developed prediction models for 30-day mortality and major complications following elective arthroplasty. Te models were trained on the American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement data and externally validated using Veterans Afairs Surgical Quality Improvement Program data which had diferent patient demographics and clinical characteristics compared to the training data. Te models showed acceptable performance in predicting mortality (Area under curve;: 0.69) and cardiac complications (Area under curve;: 0.72) (but not renal complications – Area under curve;: 0.60) during external validation using the Veterans Afairs Surgical Quality Improvement Program data . One important limitation of this study design is that the training dataset does not contain complete patient medical data (e.g., comorbidities) and only includes the patients from a small number of hospitals, limiting its generalizability . Overall, Machine learning; has not been extensively applied in predicting post-Total knee arthroplasty; complications, and further eforts in model development with rigorous internal and external validation are warranted. We fnd AI and Machine learning; models improve automatic grading of knee radiographs, patient selection for Total knee arthroplasty;, and predictin of postoperative outcomes of patient-reported outcome measures, patient satisfaction, and short-term complications. Te weaknesses of current AI algorithms include the lack of external validation, inherent biases of clinical data, the need for large datasets for training, and signifcant research and regulatory gaps. Te current use of artifcial intelligence algorithms has its limitations. First, accuracy and generalizability are key obstacles as very few models have been externally validated, and high Area under curve; values do not necessarily translate to good clinical performance . More rigorous external validation of prediction models is needed during algorithm development and testing, to ensure robustness and reliability before algorithms can be considered for routine clinical use. An important issue regarding generalizability lies in the fact that patient selection and postoperative outcomes are infuenced by structure- and region-related confounders, such as institutional policies, hospital sites, and organizational culture . For example, the threshold for booking Total knee arthroplasty; may difer between institutions depending on resource availability and hospital policy. Institutions may beneft from using regionspecifc machine learning algorithms for more accurate predictions. Second, a practical disadvantage of machine learning models is the requirement of large datasets to train these models. Tese datasets often contain millions of unique data points and require hours or days of training, and additional datasets are needed to assess generalizability . Te increased availability of public datasets such as Multicenter Osteoarthritis Study and Osteoarthritis;I could help overcome this obstacle and facilitate further research on machine learning in arthroplasty. Tird, a common concern surrounding the use of artifcial intelligence is the “black-box” nature of machine learning models. Machine learning algorithms’ decision-making processes are opaque, using hidden layers and unknown connections between inputs and outputs, resulting in poor understanding and difcult scientifc interpretation of how it generates predictions and recommendations . Visualization of attention maps cannot directly provide information on these hidden relationships, and other eforts to increase the transparency of deep learning models are still ongoing . Nevertheless, this poses more of a problem to scientifc understanding rather than clinical application. By contrast, the reliance on data for model development is a key limitation of artifcial intelligence in clinical use. Models developed are limited by the biases and limitations of current clinical data. Machine learning models are also “plastic”, i.e., changing when presented with new data , and the input parameters included in a machine learning algorithm, such as models predicting Total knee arthroplasty; need, may continuously change as new data becomes available to the model. Finally, signifcant research and regulatory gaps exist, given the novel nature of this technology. Tere is a paucity of literature on the use of machine learning algorithms to predict the need for arthroplasty, and current machine learning models are unable to predict the long-term outcomes of Total knee arthroplasty;. Machine learning; models are limited by the biases of current clinical data, and future implementation of these algorithms into routine hospital care will also come with regulatory concerns of algorithm quality control, security issues and adversarial attacks. KOsteoarthritis; is an important public health problem worldwide. AI ofers a promising solution to detect KOsteoarthritis; and improve pre-Total knee arthroplasty; planning. Further research is needed to overcome the limitations of Machine learning; models and ensure reliability for future use in routine healthcare settings. Abbreviations American College of Surgeons-National Surgical Quality Improvement Program; A: American College of Surgeons-National Surgical Quality Improvement Program; A Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;: Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve; Kellgren & Lawrence;: Kellgren & Lawrence; Length of stay;: Length of stay; Machine learning;: Machine learning; KOsteoarthritis;: Knee osteoarthritis; Osteoarthritis;I: Osteoarthritis Initiative; Total knee arthroplasty;: Total knee arthroplasty; Visualanalogue scale;QIP: Veterans Afairs Surgical Quality Improvement Program.