Te classifcation of knee osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) is an essential clinical issue, particularly in terms of the diagnosis of early knee Osteoarthritis;, as the primary goals of treatment of knee Osteoarthritis; is to prevent its progression and to avoid irreversible degenerative change occurring in the joint . To apply efective intervention to early knee Osteoarthritis;, precise diagnosis is a frst step. However, there is a limitation to use two-dimensional (Two-dimensional;) radiographs to evaluate the degree of tibiofemoral joint deformity in early-stage knee Osteoarthritis;. Traditionally, the Kellgren–Lawrence (Kellgren–Lawrence;) classifcation, which was developed in 1957, is considered the gold standard for the clinical evaluation of knee Osteoarthritis; and is used for radiological grading . Tis classifcation is based on osteophyte formation and joint space narrowing, and subtle changes in these features are difcult to determine on Two-dimensional; images. Several studies have suggested limitations of Kellgren-Lawrence; classifcation in diagnosis of early knee Osteoarthritis;  To overcome this problem, Oka et al. developed an automatic system for diagnosing knee Osteoarthritis; (knee osteoarthritis computer-aided diagnosis; KOsteoarthritis;CAD)  and reported normal and threshold values of various knee Osteoarthritis; parameters . Although KOsteoarthritis;CAD enables the automatic classifcation of knee Osteoarthritis;, the joint space widths between Kellgren–Lawrence;1 and Kellgren–Lawrence;2 difer by <0.4 mm,  which is too small to enable diferentiation on clinical radiographic images. Tus, the ability to diagnose early degenerative changes in the tibiofemoral joint based on Two-dimensional; radiography remains limited. In recent years, weight-bearing computed tomography (Computed tomography;) has been investigated as a potentially more reliable method for diagnosing knee Osteoarthritis;. For example, Segal et al. reported the superior test-retest reliability of cone-beam Computed tomography; for the three-dimensional (Three-dimensional;) measurement of joint space width in the weight-bearing Osteoarthritis; knee, with intraclass correlation coefcients of 0.95–0.97 and 0.90–0.97 for the lateral and medial compartment, respectively . Hirschmann et al. also used cone-beam Computed tomography; to determine the efect of weight-bearing using Three-dimensional; images of the knee joint . However, these studies conducted conebeam Computed tomography; using efective felds of view of 220 mm × 220 mm or 200 mm × 350 mm, respectively, which were not sufciently wide to scan the entire leg or evaluate the lower limb alignment while standing. Accordingly, the use of cone-beam Computed tomography; to conduct a Three-dimensional; analysis of the tibiofemoral deformity has been limited. Recently, Fujii et al reported that Three-dimensional; lower limb alignment under weightbearing condition . Teir results clearly demonstrated Three-dimensional; deformity of knees undergoing Osteoarthritis;, and suggest that it is important to evaluate Three-dimensional; whole leg alignment under weight-bearing when diagnosing Osteoarthritis;. Our institution has installed a 320-detector upright Computed tomography; capable of scanning the entire body in a standing position . In order to know the condition of the knee joint, it is necessary to know the alignment of the whole leg, especially under weight-bearing. As mentioned above, radiographs and partial cone-beam Computed tomography; have been used to evaluate joint space narrowing under weight-bearing, but it has been difcult to evaluate whole leg alignment under weight-bearing in Three-dimensional; using those imaging modalities. In this study, we aimed to use the upright Computed tomography; and conventional Computed tomography; to evaluate changes in the Three-dimensional; alignment of the entire leg in response to weight-bearing in patients with medial knee Osteoarthritis;. We hypothesised that weightbearing causes Three-dimensional; alignment changes of the knee even in early-stage knee Osteoarthritis;. A power analysis was performed to calculate the minimum sample size for the study, as our study design involves two Computed tomography; examinations for each subject. We used population values and the sigma of our previous study  and calculated the sample size with an alpha probability of 0.05, efect size of 0.5, and power of 0.8. Te analysis revealed that a minimum sample size of 48 was required for the study. According to the analysis, we recruited 26 patients to study 52 knee joints. We recruited patients with knee Osteoarthritis; being treated at our hospital in writing and included those who ofered to participate in the study. However, 7 knees in 6 patients diagnosed with infammatory arthritis on magnetic resonance imaging; or having valgus knee Osteoarthritis; were excluded as this study focused on medial knee Osteoarthritis;. Finally, we included 45 knee joints in 25 patients with knee Osteoarthritis; (21 women, 4 men). Knee Osteoarthritis; was defned as knee joint pain or stifness during the past 3 months in the absence of any trauma including medial and lateral knee ligament injuries or systematic disease (e.g. rheumatoid arthritis) that could cause knee joint pain as well as a radiological classifcation of a Kellgren–Lawrence; grade ≥1 based on an anterior-posterior radiograph obtained under the supine position . Tree orthopaedic surgeons who have more than 20 years of experience in treatment of knee Osteoarthritis; diagnosed and classifed the patients. All methods were performed in accordance with the Japanese Ethical Guidelines for Medical and Biological Research Involving Human Subjects. Each participant provided written informed consent, and the study protocol was approved by our ethical committee (Institutional Review Board ID# 20150293). Computed tomography; images were acquired from the pelvis to the end of the foot using two Computed tomography; scanners under the following conditions. Computed tomography; examinations in the supine position were performed using a 320-row Computed tomography; scanner (Aquilion ONE, Canon Medical Systems, Otawara, Japan), while examinations in the standing position were performed using an upright Computed tomography; scanner with a 320-row detector (prototype TSX-401R, Canon Medical Systems; Fig. 1A). Te patients stood or lay in a relaxed position and placed both feet at shoulder width. To avoid intentional rotation of the hip joints, the patients were only instructed to extend the knees as much as possible, with no other restrictions. Te upright Computed tomography; examinations were performed using the following parameters: peak tube voltage, 100 kV; tube current, 10–800 mA (noise index = 8 at a slice thickness = 5 mm); rotation speed, 0.5 second ; and slice thickness, 0.5 mm (Fig. 1B). Te approximate acquisition time was 10–20 seconds. Te Three-dimensional; surface data corresponding to the femur and tibia were extracted from the Computed tomography; DICOM fles using Three-dimensional; visualisation software (AVIZO 6.4; Termo Fisher Scientifc, Tokyo, Japan). For each participant, we matched the femoral surfaces in both positions using the iterative closest point (Iterative closest point;) algorithm from the Visualization Toolkit 8.1.0 (Kitware Inc., Clifton Park, NY, United States.A) for the Three-dimensional; surface registration technique (Fig. 2B). Besl and McKay proposed a Three-dimensional;–Three-dimensional; surface registration technique using this Iterative closest point; algorithm in 1992 . In a previous in vivo Three-dimensional; lumber spine study using this technique, the mean absolute translation error was observed to be <0.1 mm in the x-direction and z-direction, and the mean absolute rotation error was <0.2° around the X-axis and Z-axis . We set the number of registration times by Iterative closest point; algorithm to be 1000 times and performed Three-dimensional;-Three-dimensional; surface registration. ate System We used a modifed femoral and tibial coordinate system based on the method defned by Sato et al. , Enomoto et al.  and the International Society of Biomechanics  (Fig. 2A). For the femoral coordinate system, the Z-axis was defned as a rightward-pointing line connecting the centres of the posteromedial and posterolateral condyles. Te temporary (T)-axis was defned as a line connecting the centre of the Z-axis and the centre of the femoral head. Te X-axis was defned as the line perpendicular to both the Z-axis and T-axis and pointing anteriorly. Te Y-axis was defned as an upward-pointing line perpendicular to both the Z-axis and X-axis. For the tibial coordinate system, the X-axis was defned as an anterior-pointing line connecting the proximal end of the tibial tuberosity medial margin and the centre of posterior intercondylar notch at the level of lateral joint space (Akagi’s line ). Te T-axis was defned as an upward-pointing line connecting the centre of the Akagi’s line and the centre of the tibial plafond. Te Z-axis was defned as a laterally pointing line perpendicular to both the X-axis and T-axis. Te Y-axis was defned as an upward-pointing line perpendicular to both the X-axis and Z-axis. Next, we analysed diferences in knee rotation between the supine and standing positions. We used the Euler/ Cardan angles representing three sequential rotations about the anatomical axis of the proximal bone to describe the bone-to-bone rotations of the tibia relative to the femur around each axis. Specifcally, we used the Euler rotation sequence Z-X-Y, wherein the rotations around X, Y, and Z were defned as varus/valgus, external/internal rotation, and fexion/extension, respectively. In addition, to evaluate the diference in the original lower limb position in the supine and standing positions during the Computed tomography; examinations, the tibia external angles with respect to the pelvis were calculated. Specifcally, the angle between the perpendicular of the line connecting both anterior superior iliac spins of the pelvis and the anterior–posterior axis (X-axis) of the tibia was measured. Participants were divided into four grades based on the Kellgren–Lawrence; classifcation: Kellgren–Lawrence; grade 1, Kellgren–Lawrence; 2, Kellgren–Lawrence; 3, and Kellgren–Lawrence; 4 . Diferences in the knee angles in each plane were compared among these four grades. To examine the validity of the rotation of the foot position, we examined the correlation between the tibia external rotation angle with respect to the pelvis and the tibia external rotation angle with respect to the femur, and we also compared the four grades. To compare the four grades, we used Analysis of variance; at a signifcance level of p < 0.05. Spropensity scores;S 24.0 (IBone marrow;, Armonk, NY, United States.A) was used for statistical analysis. Based on the radiographs, 11, 11, 11, and 12 knees were categorised as Kellgren–Lawrence; grades 1, 2, 3, and 4, respectively. Te mean (± standard deviation) age, body weight, and body mass index of the participants were 69.9 ± 8.9 (range, 53–86) years, 58.5 ± 12.8 (range, 36.0–80.0) kg, and 24.3 ± 5.1 (range, 16.9–35.3) kg/m2 , respectively. For the comparison of all coordinate axis rotations, Analysis of variance; results showed p ≥0.05 for Levene’s test, so equal variances were used and Tukey’s test was performed as a post-hoc test. In the supine position, the knee joint fexed and adducted in the high Kellgren-Lawrence; grade group compared to the low Kellgren-Lawrence; grade group, but there was no signifcant diference in rotation. In the standing position, the Osteoarthritis; knee joint fexed and adducted in the high Kellgren-Lawrence; grade group, and the tibia was originally externally rotated with respect to the femur but gradually internally rotated in the high Kellgren-Lawrence; grade group (Fig. 3). Te fexion angles between the two positions in Kellgren–Lawrence; grades 1, 2, 3, and 4 changed by 0.04 ± 1.91°, 2.37 ± 2.36°, 2.33 ± 3.38°, and 4.08 ± 4.36°, respectively (Fig. 4a). Te diference between Kellgren–Lawrence; grades 1 and 4 was signifcant (p = 0.020). Te varus angles between the two positions in Kellgren–Lawrence; grades 1, 2, 3, and 4 changed by 0.40 ± 0.62°, 0.69 ± 0.87°, 1.52 ± 0.91°, and 3.03 ± 2.16°, respectively (Fig. 4b). Te diferences between Kellgren–Lawrence; grades 1 and 4 (p <0.001), between grades 2 and 4 (p <0.001) and between Kellgren–Lawrence; grades 3 and 4 (p =0.042) were signifcant. Te tibial internal rotation angles between the two positions in grades Kellgren–Lawrence; 1, 2, 3, and 4 changed by 0.34 ± 1.26°, 2.95 ± 1.44°, 3.60 ± 2.25°, and 3.88 ± 2.00°, respectively (Fig. 4c). Te diferences between Kellgren–Lawrence; grades 1 and 2 (p = 0.008), between grades 1 and 3 (p =<0.001), and between grades 1 and 4 (p < 0.001) were signifcant. No other diferences were found in the Three-dimensional; rotation angle among the 4 Osteoarthritis; grades. Table 1 presents diference in lower leg positions under two Computed tomography; examinations, that were the tibia external rotation angles with respect to the femur and pelvis. Pearson’s correlation coefcient between the tibia external rotation angle with respect to the pelvis and the tibia external rotation angle with respect to the femur were both 0.069, and there were no signifcant correlations (p = 0.52). Also, there was no signifcant diference in tibia external rotation angle with respect to the pelvis between each grade between the supine and standing positions during the Computed tomography; examinations. Our fndings from this study supported our hypothesis that weight-bearing causes Three-dimensional; alignment changes of the Osteoarthritis; knees, and greater Three-dimensional; deformities were found in knees with end-stage Osteoarthritis;. An important fnding of our investigation was the determination of a signifcantly greater tibial internal rotation with respect to the femur under weight-bearing conditions in knees with Kellgren–Lawrence; grade 2 Osteoarthritis;, compared to grade 1 Osteoarthritis;. In Kellgren-Lawrence; grade 2, there is subtle joint space narrowing with minimal osteophyte formation on the anterior-posterior radiography . While weight-bearing Computed tomography; clearly detects early change occurring in the knee joint which is increased internal rotation with weight-bearing. Consistent with our fndings, Hirschmann et al. used cone-beam Computed tomography; to demonstrate that the tibial internal rotation increased in the knee under weight-bearing conditions . However, that study was signifcantly limited by the following factors: the subjects without knee Osteoarthritis; were involved (17 of 26 were knee Osteoarthritis;) ; a relation between the Osteoarthritis; grade and tibial internal rotation was not found; the axial Computed tomography; images were subjected to Two-dimensional; measurements, which should include measurement errors to account for possible diferences in the levels of axial Computed tomography; images; and an unnatural subject standing posture (i.e. standing on the foot of the examined leg with the other knee bent and resting outside the gantry) that placed the knee in a non-physiological position. Matsui et al. used conventional Computed tomography; to evaluate rotational deformity in patients with knee Osteoarthritis; in supine position and observed an increase in the tibial external rotation as the Osteoarthritis; severity increased . However, a direct comparison of our results with their results is difcult, as the Osteoarthritis; knees in their study were more severely deformed (femorotibial angles > 190° or 200°) than those in our study, and the two studies used diferent coordinate systems to measure tibiofemoral rotation. Recently, Fujii et al. compared Three-dimensional; lower limb alignment in Osteoarthritis; knees between weight-bearing and non-weight-bearing conditions . Tey used Two-dimensional;–Three-dimensional; image-matching with biplanar computed radiography (Computed radiography.) and Three-dimensional; bone models of the complete lower extremity rebuilt using computed tomography-based information. Lower limb alignment during standing was evaluated using biplanar Computed radiography. images obtained while participants stood with as extended as possible of the knees and toes in the neutral state. Te Osteoarthritis; knees showed fexion and varus both in the supine and standing positions, and neutral rotation of the tibia to the femur in the supine position and internal rotation of the tibia in the standing position. Fujii et al.’s study used compatible methods and experimental conditions with our study, and their results agreed well with those of our study. Both studies indicates that weight-bearing alters the Three-dimensional; lower limb alignment of Osteoarthritis; knees, particularly internal rotation of the tibia occurs in the standing position, although their study did not show the results with each Osteoarthritis; grade. To our knowledge, ours is the frst study to demonstrate changes in Three-dimensional; alignment in patients with knee Osteoarthritis; of various grades under natural full weight-bearing conditions. Te classifcation of knee Osteoarthritis; is an essential clinical issue, particularly in terms of the diagnosis of early knee Osteoarthritis; . As described above, diferentiating early knee Osteoarthritis; using Two-dimensional; radiographs is difcult owing to a very small diference in joint space width between Kellgren-Lawrence; grades 1 and 2 . Although cone-beam Computed tomography; imaging depicted the joint space widths of Osteoarthritis; knees under weight-bearing conditions with a high level of repeatability , even Three-dimensional; images obtained using this technique could not easily distinguish early changes associated with knee Osteoarthritis;. In our analysis, we observed an average diference of 2.6° in the tibial internal rotation under weight-bearing conditions between Kellgren–Lawrence; grades 1 and 2 (Fig. 3). Given the high level of accuracy of Three-dimensional;–Three-dimensional; registration based on Computed tomography; (0.2° about the X-axis and Z-axis ), we could clearly visualise early changes associated with knee Osteoarthritis;. Te weightbearing conditions led to increased fexion, adduction, and tibial internal rotation as the Osteoarthritis; grade increased. Moreover, a signifcant increase in tibial internal rotation occurred prior to the increases in fexion and adduction, suggesting that internal rotation under weight-bearing conditions is a key pathologic factor in the progression of knee Osteoarthritis;. Several studies have depicted the Three-dimensional; kinematics of Osteoarthritis; knees during weight-bearing activities. Matsuki et al. used fuoroscopy and Two-dimensional;–Three-dimensional; registration to evaluate the knee kinematics associated with early knee Osteoarthritis; (Kellgren–Lawrence; grades 1 and 2) during pivoting and squatting activities . In that study, reduced tibial internal rotation was observed during pivot activity in early Osteoarthritis; knees relative to control knees. Another study similarly reported reduced tibial internal rotation during various weightbearing activities in knees with advanced Osteoarthritis; (Kellgren–Lawrence; grades 3 and 4) relative to healthy knees . Both studies demonstrated diferences in the tibiofemoral rotation patterns between Osteoarthritis; and healthy knees. Till date, only one study has suggested a link between tibial rotation and the onset of knee Osteoarthritis;. Andriacchi et al. used a computer simulation to demonstrate the efect of tibial internal rotation during gait on the thinning of cartilage in the knee . Te authors found that a 5° increase in tibial internal rotation, which is usually seen in the anterior cruciate ligament defcient knee, was associated with rapid rate cartilage thinning in the medial compartment and speculated that this increase could initiate knee Osteoarthritis;. We also thought that Adenylyl cyclase;L function causes the change in rotation from the supine to the upright position. In the past, it has been reported that Adenylyl cyclase;L function declines by 20% between people in their 20s and 80s, and aging may be one of the reasons for Adenylyl cyclase;L dysfunction . In another upright cone-beam Computed tomography;, arch drop was found to cause internal rotation of the tibia in a group of women at high risk for knee Osteoarthritis; . Tis suggests that tibial internal rotation may be a risk factor for more severe knee Osteoarthritis;. It was suggested that abnormal rotation of the tibia triggered by Adenylyl cyclase;L dysfunction may be the trigger of the Osteoarthritis; and may determine the indication for early prevention of progression of the Osteoarthritis; and surgeries such as high tibial osteotomy or total knee arthroplasty. However, the relation between abnormal tibial kinematics and the onset and progression of knee Osteoarthritis; remains unclear and further investigation is needed. Several limitations of this study should be noted. First, even when we performed a power analysis prior to the study, to analyse statistical diference in each Osteoarthritis; grade, the statistical power of our analysis was limited by the small number of Osteoarthritis; patients included in our study. Even with the limited numbers of the patients, our results clearly demonstrate potential to diagnose early-stage knee Osteoarthritis; using upright Computed tomography;. Second, to evaluate accurate tibial internal rotation in standing, as shown in the present study and in the study by Fuji et al. , Computed tomography; images with matching technique are required . As anterior-posterior radiograph is still the gold standard to diagnose knee Osteoarthritis;, there is a need to develop method to evaluate tibial internal/external rotation on radiographs. In the future, computer-aided method with deep learning algorithm has a potential to evaluate the tibial rotation and to diagnose early-stage knee Osteoarthritis; on Two-dimensional; radiograph . Tird, Kellgren-Lawrence; grading was done on supine non-weight-bearing radiographs. However, assessment of joint space narrowing (Kellgren-Lawrence; grade 3 and 4) is certainly impaired by grading on non-weightbearing images and the fully extended position also is known to reduce reliability and validity of assessments of joint space narrowing. Forth, we evaluated knee kinematics under weight-bearing conditions while the subjects stood on both legs. Under this physiological condition, the entire body weight was divided evenly between the knees. However, the application of greater weight-bearing conditions would likely elucidate the pathology of knee Osteoarthritis;. Moreover, using a self-selected pose could lead to patients with more severe knee Osteoarthritis; standing in a way that minimized discomfort. Future studies should aim to examine knee kinematics under various weight-bearing conditions and at diferent knee fexion angles. Changes in the Three-dimensional; alignment of the knee under weightbearing conditions were assessed in patients with knee Osteoarthritis; via a novel 320-row upright Computed tomography; protocol. Changes in Three-dimensional; deformities (fexion, adduction, and tibial internal rotation) from a non-weight-bearing to weightbearing condition were observed in end-stage Osteoarthritis; knees. No diferences were found in fexion and adduction between Kellgren-Lawrence; grade 1 and 2 knees, but greater tibial internal rotation was observed in Kellgren-Lawrence; grade 2 knees as opposed to Kellgren-Lawrence; grade 1 knees when weight-bearing. Tese results suggest that greater tibial rotation when weight-bearing is a key consideration to diferentiate early-stage patients from advanced stage patients.