Total knee arthroplasty (Total knee arthroplasty;) is commonly used for surgical treatment of knee osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) with good to excellent results reported. Preoperative planning is essential for a successful Total knee arthroplasty; procedure. Te precision of planning has improved with the utility of digital planning systems and applying planning on three-dimensional images, which are considered more accurate . As one of the basic steps of Total knee arthroplasty;, gap balancing, an important technique, can create stable and balanced medial–lateral and fexion–extension gaps. Gap balancing can be variously achieved by removal of osteophytes, proper release of soft tissues, and reasonable compromise to alignments, depending on diferent alignment concepts adopted. Intraoperatively, gap balance is a hand-check procedure, that relies on the experience of surgeons. Although the efect of osteophyte removal can be predicted from preoperative radiographic flms, it is difcult to precisely quantify a balanced gap after release. Computer science has been increasingly used in various medical settings. More recently, artifcial intelligence (AI)-based medical systems have become commercially available. Modern systems armed with machine learning algorithms have been applied in image processing, health state monitoring and prediction, detection of diseases, medication administration and management of patients, among others . In this study, we attempted to develop a 2-D planning system with an algorithm of the balanced gap from the preoperative plain flm of the knee. Computer-assisted methods were used to investigate the infuence of osteophytes on postoperative gap balancing and to obtain an equation that predicts the relationship between osteophyte size and gap gaining in primary Total knee arthroplasty; for Osteoarthritis;. Sample enrollment Radiographic data of patients who received primary Total knee arthroplasty; from January to December 2021 were reviewed. One hundred and ten Total knee arthroplasty; cases that met the inclusion criteria were enrolled. Criteria for inclusion and exclusion are shown in Fig. 1. Standard pre- and postoperative anteroposterior and lateral radiographs of the knee were collected for analysis. Te study was approved by Ethics Committee of our institute (Applicationroved Number: S2020-005–01). Several elements were defned on preoperative AP and lateral plain flms (see Table 1, Fig. 2A and B). Te thickness of the bone cut was calculated. Due to the irregularity in osteophyte shapes, the area of osteophytes on the femoral and tibial sides was taken as trapeziform, of which the apexes were defned on plain flm. Borders of the trapeziform were designated w, x, y, and z (Fig. 2C). On the postoperative flms, only bone-cut lines were located (Table 2). We assumed that all included cases achieved a balanced rectangular joint gap after bone cut and soft tissue balancing. A rectangle was defned, with its longer borders standing for bone cut lines, while the shorter borders used for the measurement of joint gap (Fig. 2D). Given errors that might occur in magnifcation, a marker was used during radiographic examination. Calibrated data were collected using unifed magnifcation. Since it was difcult to obtain the exact thickness of bone intraoperatively, and cutting lines on the femoral and tibial sides might not be precisely shown on X-ray flms, modifcation of cutting line(s) might be required to obtain more precise parameters. Pre- and postoperative AP flms were overlapped in a unifed magnifcation. If cutting lines on pre- and postoperative flms were not consistent, it was adjusted on preoperative AP flm, and the amount of cutting was recalculated (Fig. 2E). Gap balancing techniques were utilized during the Total knee arthroplasty; procedure . Routine mid-incision and medial parapatellar approach were applied for arthrotomy. Osteophytes protruding from the medial cortex of the distal femur and proximal tibia were removed. Since osteophytes of the posterior distal femur were inaccessible before bone cutting, they were left intact until 4-in-1 cutting was performed. A distal femoral cut was made frst, with valgus of cutting jig set to 5°. Afterwards, a perpendicular tibial cut was made. Two lamina spreaders were inserted into medial and lateral joint spaces, respectively. Te lateral joint gap should be big enough to allow for spacer trial, while a 1-to-2 mm compromise of medial gap might be acceptable, because posterior osteophytes were left intact. External rotation of femoral component was determined with the knee in 90° fexion. Spreaders were inserted into the space between posterior condyles and tibial plateau, and maximum tension of collateral ligaments was achieved. Upon acheivement of balanced ligament tensions were achieved, a line parallel to tibial plateau was drawn on the surface of distal femur, which served as the external rotation reference. Ten the fourin-one cutting procedure would be performed by following the principles of posterior reference procedure, as the distance between cutting lines of posterior condyles and tibia equaled to the total thickness of prosthesis in fexion. A spacer trial might be helpful for determining the position of cutting lines. As it lay on the tibial plateau, the upper side of the spacer stood for the position of cutting line of posterior femur. Osteophytes of posterior femur were removed. Flexion and extension gaps should be confrmed with a spacer or spreaders. We recommended using the trial spacers that go with the prosthetic system, or performing a trial reduction instead. No more soft tissue release should be performed as soon as bone cut is accomplished. According to the rationale of gap balancing technique in Total knee arthroplasty;, soft tissue release should be minimal. Te additional gap resulted mainly from removal of osteophytes, and was calculated from the diference between the outer and inner rims of osteophyte trapeziform area (Fig. 3). One hundred and ten cases were included in our study and were divided into a training dataset and a test dataset randomly at a ratio of 9:1. Statistical package R (Version 4.0.5, Te R Foundation for Statistical Computing, Vienna, Austria) was used for statistical analysis. Relations among continuous variables were assessed in terms of Pearson’s correlation coefcient, while diferences were tested by an independent t-test. A P<0.05 was considered statistically signifcant. Univariable linear regression analysis was performed to evaluate the association between each predictive variable and the joint gap. Additionally, stepwise regression was conducted. Considering the correlation between independent variables, independent variables that had signifcant infuence on dependent variables and were independent of each other were chosen in the multivariable analysis. Meanwhile, distributions of residual and ftting values were checked to make sure that they were in line with the linear regression hypothesis. A tenfold cross-validation was conducted to avoid a certain sampling bias. Te fold with the best predictive efect was selected as the fnal model. To compare the performance of the model and predict the contribution of the predictors in the multivariate linear regression model, we used R-squared to evaluate the performance of the models, with higher values indicating a more incredible prediction. Furthermore, the models’ root mean square error (Repetition maximum.SE) and mean absolute error (MAdverse event) of the models were also calculated . Low values of Repetition maximum.SE and MAdverse event indicated good predictive power of the mode. All variables showed no signifcant diferences in mean values between the training dataset and test datasets (Table 3). As shown in Figure, thickness of tibial cut, femoral cut and posterior condyle, length of borders of osteophyte trapeziform (w, x, y, and z) and joint gap were correlated signifcantly (P<0.05). Moreover, border lengths of osteophyte trapeziform were correlated with each other, as well (Fig. 4). Univariate analysis and multivariate analysis results are listed in Table 4. Each predictor had a signifcant infuence on the dependent variable in the univariate analysis (P<0.05). Te linear relationships were clearly shown between the predictors and Joint Gap (Fig. 5A). Moreover, backwards-stepwise selection was conducted. Considering the collinearity of linearity, y, thickness of tibial cut, femoral cut and post condyle were retained in the multivariate analysis. Distributions of residual and ftting values were shown in Fig. 5B, and satisfed the linear regression hypothesis. Te result of the tenfold cross-validation is shown in Table 5. Te performance of the ten-fold model showed that the R-squared value was large. And the Repetition maximum.SE, MAdverse event values were relatively low, which indicated that the model had good-ftting and was robust. Te best performance fold was chosen for the establishment of the best model. R-Squared equaled 0.8191, which was close to 1 in the range of 0 and 1. Te Repetition maximum.SE equaled 3.4761, which was acceptable in clinical practice. Joint Gap calculation equation was as follows: According to the aforementioned equation, a 2-D preoperative planning system was developed with adjustable parameters such as planned resection thicknesses and orientations of prosthesis, which may provide a rough prediction of joint gap based on surgeon-preset bone cutting (Fig. 6). Postoperative parameters were demonstrated on the right panel. Osteophytes were identifed automatically, and joint gap was calculated according to the predictive equation and preset bone cuts. Orientation and height of bone cuts can be adjusted. Preoperative planning is a good start for all surgical procedures. Analog flms had been used for years before digital radiographs were introduced. Errors in magnifcation made planning on analog flms inaccurate. Digital preoperative planning has been proven to be more accurate in hip and knee arthroplasties . However, issues, such as implant rotation and extraarticular deformities, remained unaddressed in 2D planning procedure . Recently, Three-dimensional; templating based on CT or Magnetic resonance imaging; scan yielded better accuracy in predicting implant size as compared to traditional 2D flms . Meanwhile, Kobayashi et al. demonstrated the unnecessity of applying Three-dimensional; templating before Total knee arthroplasty;, as their results failed to support the superiority of the technique in predicting implant size preoperatively . Robotic systems attained better results in alignment in Total knee arthroplasty; than individualized Three-dimensional; planning, although the former is time-consuming and doesn’t produce superior Patient-reported outcome measures than the latter . Moreover, any additional technique rather than traditional 2D templating may incur additional cost or radiation exposure. We attempted to plan on plain flms, with infuence on soft tissues taken into account. To our knowledge, it was the frst attempt to quantitatively determine soft tissue release on a 2-D planning system. By using the aforementioned equation, if the amount of preoperative femoral and tibial cut is known, targeted joint gap can be calculated and serve as a reference to surgeons. It should be mentioned that not all dimensions of osteophytes were involved in the equation. Only distance between tips of osteophyte protrusions signifcantly afected posterior joint gap. Additionally, it is wellknown that the amount of bone cut will afect joint gap achieved, and, further, the thickness of tibial insert. Tis has been taken into account in the building of the model. Machine learning has been widely used in medical felds and for preoperative planning of Total knee arthroplasty;, including implant size, position, economic analysis, outcome evaluation and patient/implant follow-ups . Cross-validation is a method used for model and dataset validation to estimate the out-of-sample error. It has become quite popular because of its simplicity and utility . Ten-fold cross-validation performs the ftting procedure a total of ten times, with each ft being performed on a training set consisting of 90% of the total training set selected at random, with the remaining 10% used as a holdout set for validation. In our study, we conducted a ten-fold cross-validation by using the R software to avoid sampling bias and it is an efective attempt to use the machine learning concept to deal with large samples. Our study is subject to limitations. First, all data were reviewed retrospectively, while the sample size was relatively small. Loss of intraoperative information might bring sample bias to the study. We conducted a cross-validation of samples to minimize the infuence of sample size. Secondly, Some factors, such as surgeons’ understanding about soft tissue balancing that might infuence their maneuver or mis-handlings during operation, are not taken into consideration. Moreover, surgeons’ preference for balancing in Total knee arthroplasty; does infuence the establishment of the model. We attempted to adjust parameters in the system to accommodate diferent surgical preferences such as ligament balancing or measurement resection in the published edition of our software. A prospective study with better design may be closer to real-world practice, and will improve the accuracy of planning. Implant variables were not considered in the model, either, because minimal variation in implant dimensions might not infuence the results signifcantly. Last but not least, the equation we worked out may be useful in guiding preoperative planning but uncertainties in surgical procedures require the ability to respond fexibly during operation. A surgeon should take all possible factors into account preoperatively in order to perform a perfect surgery In this study, we have worked out an equation to predict the influence of preoperative radiographic elements on the soft tissue balancing before Total knee arthroplasty;, and a preoperative planning system has been developed. The computer-assisted method was proven useful in generating a reliable equation. Further studies are warranted to modify and improve the model to achieve better results.