Knee and hip osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) affect more than 235 million people worldwide and is a major contributor to years lived with disability according to the World Health Organization Global Burden of Disease Study . Important risk factors for knee and hip Osteoarthritis; include age, obesity, and female gender , but recent studies also suggest that physical inactivity may play a role . In addition, biomechanical factors such as malalignment and occupational physical exposure are considered to modify the risk of Osteoarthritis; development by altering joint loading . Risk factors for Osteoarthritis; development are usually studied in older high-risk populations, as the time to develop Osteoarthritis; is usually long. Knowledge on the presence of Osteoarthritis; risk factors, and in particular modifiable risk factors, in younger populations could help earlier identification of individuals at high risk of developing Osteoarthritis; and may offer opportunity to prevent or delay the development of Osteoarthritis; . Few attempts have been made to investigate the presence of Osteoarthritis; risk factors in early life. A recent narrative review reported only few studies assessing childhood or early adulthood risk factors for later knee Osteoarthritis; development . High body mass index; was found to be independently related to Osteoarthritis; in later life, whereas limited evidence from mainly retrospective studies suggested that injury, childhood malalignment, socioeconomic status and physical abuse are associated with Osteoarthritis; later in life . It is difficult to perform longitudinal studies addressing early adulthood risk factors for Osteoarthritis;. Joint pain is a cardinal symptom of Osteoarthritis;, which is often present before structural changes are visible on radiographs . Given the strong link between persistent knee/hip pain and later development of Osteoarthritis;, younger patients with knee and hip pain may serve a useful model to study the potential presence of Osteoarthritis; risk factors earlier in life . The aims of this two stage cross-sectional study were: a) to investigate the prevalence of risk factors for knee and hip Osteoarthritis; in a population of 29 to 59 year old individuals, b) to estimate the magnitude and direction of association between risk factors for knee and hip Osteoarthritis; and presence of persistent knee and/or hip pain in a population of 29 to 59 year old individuals, and c) to investigate the prevalence of risk factors for knee and hip Osteoarthritis;, including specific biomechanical risk factors, in a population of 29 to 59 year old individuals with prolonged persistent knee or hip pain, respectively. This was a two-stage cross-sectional survey. In the first stage we surveyed people participating in the “Early detection and prevention” (TOF) pilot study. In the second stage individuals who reported knee and/or hip problems at the first stage survey received a second survey with additional detailed questions. All data were self-reported via online surveys. The TOF study is a population-based study on residents from the Region of Southern Denmark . Almost all Danish residents are listed with a general practitioner (general practitioner;) . During the course of one year about 85% of all residents are in contact with their general practitioner; . The purpose of the TOF study is to early and systematically identify citizens with health risk behaviour and a high risk of lifestyle related diseases, and to offer targeted and coherent prevention in the primary care sector. In 2016 a pilot study (“Early detection and prevention” pilot study) was performed to test the feasibility of the intervention. All general practitioner;s (n = 68) in the municipalities of Haderslev and Varde (Denmark) were invited to participate in the “Early detection and prevention” pilot study. Of these, 47 general practitioner;s agreed to participate. Two hundred citizens per general practitioner; were randomly selected among patients born between 1957 and 1986. Selection procedures allowed for simultaneous selection of citizens living together and resulted in a source population of 9400 citizens. Information on age and gender for all citizens was extracted from the personal identification numbers. All selected citizens received an invitation and were asked to sign an electronic consent form if they wished to participate in the study. A survey including 15 items was mailed to all consenting participants. The survey included questions on health risk behaviour for lifestyle diseases, symptoms of Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease;) and questions on possible risk factors for Osteoarthritis; such as body mass index;, the presence of persistent knee and/or hip pain, previous knee/hip injury, previous knee/hip surgery, leisure time physical activity, and family history of Osteoarthritis;. The outcome of interest was persistent knee and/or hip pain. This was evaluated by the statement “I have had persistent pain or discomfort in my knees or hips during the last month”, response options: yes/no. A comparable question has previously been used although we adjusted the question to focus on persistent pain during the last month rather than 12 months . Participants reported if they had had an injury to their knees or hips that caused them to visit a doctor, and if they had had previous surgery to their knee (s) and/or hip (s). The item regarding injury was adapted from The Knee Pain Screening Tool (KNEfect Size;T) and has demonstrated good completion and test-retest reliability in 50+ year-olds on postal administration (> 90% agreement) . The item regarding knee and/or hip surgery was adapted from the Osteoarthritis Initiative . Presence of knee and/or hip problems was defined as having persistent knee and/ or hip pain, a previous knee/hip injury and/or a previous knee/hip surgery. The assessment of the presence of knee and/or hip problems was only used to select “Early detection and prevention” pilot study responders who should receive the second questionnaire on knee/hip-relevant risk factors (Fig. 1). Leisure time physical activity was evaluated by the question “If you think of the past year, which of the following describes your recreational activities best?”, response options: “I read, watch TV or do other sedentary activities” (sedentary), “I walk, cycle, or perform other light physical activities at least 4 hours a week” (low intensity activities), “I do recreational sports or perform heavy gardening or alike at least 4 hours a week” (moderate intensity activities) and “I do intense exercise several times a week and participate in sport competitions regularly” (high intensity activities). This question has been used in several epidemiological studies .Family history of Osteoarthritis; was evaluated by the question “Have any of your closest relatives – before the age of 70 years – had osteoarthritis? (closest relatives are grandparents, parents, siblings, children)”, with the following answer options: “no”, “yes, one person”, “yes, two or more” or “I don’t know”. Both “yes, one person” and “yes, two or more” were categorized as having a family history of Osteoarthritis;. This question was modified to osteoarthritis from a question regarding family history of diabetes . Participants reporting knee and/or hip problems in the “Early detection and prevention” pilot study survey received a second questionnaire that included questions about the most symptomatic joint (i.e. left/right knee or hip), knee alignment, foot rotation, and physical occupational exposures. This second survey consisted of single item questions used in different questionnaires regarding the risk of osteoarthritis  and was sent out in two mailings. The first mailing was distributed to the early responders to the first survey (n = 1030) 6 weeks after the first survey was sent out. The second mailing was distributed to the late responders (n = 96; participants who replied to the first survey after 6–14 weeks) 14 weeks after the first survey was distributed. Patients were asked to grade knee alignment and foot rotation by using a diagram that illustrated the direction and severity of each alignment grade. This was done separately for both knees and feet. For knee alignment, both answer options for varus alignment (“very bow legged” and “bow legged”) were combined, and the same was done for valgus alignment (knock-kneed). For foot rotation, answer options for feet rotated out (“very turned out feet” and “turned out feet”) and feet rotated in (“very turned in feet” and “turned in feet”) were also combined. These questions have demonstrated good reproducibility (κ = 0.73 and 0.87) and excellent validity , and have been used in epidemiological studies . Occupational physical exposures were evaluated by the question “For the job or occupation you had for the longest time, did you do any of the following nearly every day?” with the following answer options: “bending for 2 hours or more”, “walking for 2 hours or more over level ground”, “kneeling for 30 minutes or more”, “squatting for 30 minutes or more”, “climbing a total of 5 or more flights of stairs”, “lifting or moving objects of 10 kg or heavier”, “driving a car for 4 hours or more”, “none of the above”. This question has previously been used in interviews and epidemiological studies . Descriptive statistics are reported as means with standard deviation (Standard deviation;) or numbers with proportions (%) as appropriate. Adjusted response rates were calculated corresponding to the American Association for Public Opinion Research’s (American Association for Public Opinion Research;) . We stratified the analysis on prevalence of persistent knee and/or hip pain and Osteoarthritis; risk factors for women and men in different age groups (29–39, 40–49 and 50–59 years old). Logistic regression using complete case analysis was used to estimate the magnitude and direction of the association between persistent knee and/or hip pain and Osteoarthritis; risk factors. body mass index; was treated as a continuous variable, and individuals reporting high and moderate intensity activities were combined into one category in logistic regression analyses due to a low number of participants reporting high intensity activities. Risk ratios (RR) with 95% confidence intervals were estimated from logistic regressions using the method described by Norton et al.  and were expressed as crude and adjusted (i.e. including all variables in the model) RR for both women and men stratified by age groups. Model checking was performed with Hosmer-Lemeshow tests, linktests and visual inspection of residual plots. The presence of prolonged persistent knee and/or hip pain was defined as persistent knee and/or hip pain reported at both the first and second stage of this survey. We described the prevalence of Osteoarthritis; risk factors, including specific biomechanical factors, in people with prolonged persistent knee pain and hip pain separately for both women and men. Data from the leg with the most symptomatic joint (index leg) was used for analyses for knee alignment and foot rotation. All analyses were performed using STATA version 15, with an alpha level of 0.05 or less considered as statistically significant. From the source population of 9400 citizens, 8814 citizens received an invitation to participate in the study (586 citizens lived outside the participating municipalities, or were exempted from digital mail) (Fig. 1 and Table 1). A total of 3587 citizens provided informed consent. Of consenting participants, 30 moved out of the participating municipalities or shifted to a non-participating general practitioner; before being invited to fill in the survey. Thus, 3557 citizens received the survey in September 2016, of whom 2661 (75%) answered the survey, giving an adjusted response rate of 30% (Table 1). Of the 2661 responders, 1152 (43%) reported that they had experienced knee and/or hip problems (i.e. reporting persistent knee and/or hip pain or discomfort in the last month, or having had a knee/hip injury or surgery). These individuals were eligible for the second questionnaire. More women and older citizens agreed to participate (Table 1). Responders with knee and/or hip problems more often reported a family history of Osteoarthritis;, compared to all responders of the first questionnaire. During the two mailings (October and December 2016) of the second questionnaire, 26 citizens were excluded, as they had not provided a valid email address. Of the eligible study population of 1126 citizens, 867 (77%) responded to the second questionnaire. Fourteen of the responders did not complete the entire questionnaire. Of the 2661 responders to the first questionnaire, 729 (27%) reported to have persistent knee and/or hip pain (Table 1). The prevalence of persistent knee and/or hip pain was slightly higher among women (29%) than men (26%) (Table 2). The one-month prevalence increased with age in women (29–39 years: 22%, 40–49 years: 28%, 50–59 years: 31%), while in men persistent knee and/or hip pain seemed to be similar for the first two age groups (29–39 years: 23%, 40–49 years: 20%) and be higher in the oldest group (50–59 years: 30%). In total, 416 participants reported to have prolonged persistent knee and/or hip pain (i.e. reporting knee and/ or hip pain both at the first and second stage of this survey) (Table 4). Of this group with prolonged persistent pain, 142 women reported knee pain and 102 reported hip pain while 123 men reported knee pain and 49 reported hip pain. Table 2 describes the prevalence of knee and/or hip pain and Osteoarthritis; risk factors stratified by age and sex, and shows that women more often reported a family history of Osteoarthritis; than men (49% vs. 37%). Only 2% of participants reported “high intensity” physical activity level. In multivariable analyses, previous knee and/or hip injury was associated with persistent knee and/or hip pain for both genders and in all age groups (Table 3). In the younger age group (29–39 years), the risk ratio (95% Confidence interval;) for previous knee and/or hip injury of having persistent knee and/or hip pain was higher for women than men (3.05 (1.84–5.05) vs. 2.34 (1.23–4.47)), whereas it was the opposite in the older age group (50–59 years old; 1.64 (1.31–2.06) vs. 2.61 (1.97–3.45)). Having a family history of Osteoarthritis; was also associated with persistent knee and/or hip pain in all analyses, except for younger men (1.31 (0.71–2.44)). Higher body mass index; was associated with persistent knee and/or hip pain in 40–49 and 50–59 year old women (1.06 (1.02–1.10) and 1.04 (1.01–1.08)), and in 50–59 year old men (1.04 (1.00–1.09). The observed effect of body mass index; on risk of knee and/or hip pain was a 4 and 6% increase in risk per point increase in body mass index;, respectively. Having had previous knee and/or hip surgery and the level of leisure time physical activity were factors not associated with persistent knee and/or pain in any of the adjusted analyses. Both women and men with prolonged persistent knee pain more often reported joint injury (women 60%, men 64%) and joint surgery (women 36%, men 37%) than individuals with prolonged persistent hip pain (injury: women 37%, men 51%; surgery: women 12%, men 18%) (Table 4). Men with prolonged persistent knee and hip pain more often reported to be occupationally physically exposed than women. The prevalence of the other risk factors was similar among men and women with knee and hip pain. In this population-based sample of individuals aged 29 to 59 years, persistent knee and/or hip pain within the last month was reported by more than 20% of participants, including those in the younger age groups. We found that typical Osteoarthritis; risk factors such as previous knee/hip injury, a family history of Osteoarthritis; and higher body mass index; were associated with persistent knee and/or hip pain in 50–59 year old men and women. Furthermore, in 40– 49 year old men and women, previous knee/hip injury and a family history of Osteoarthritis; were associated with pain, while higher body mass index; was associated with pain only in women of this age. In addition, in younger men and women aged 29–39 years, previous knee/hip injury was associated with pain, while a family history of Osteoarthritis; was associated with pain in younger women only. Finally, we found that injuries and surgeries were more common in people with prolonged persistent knee than hip pain, while men with prolonged persistent pain were more often physically exposed in their occupation than women. In this study, we investigated the prevalence of knee and/or hip pain and commonly known Osteoarthritis; risk factors in a population aged 29–59 years (mean age 48.8 (Standard deviation; 7.8)). Most previous studies have focused on Osteoarthritis; risk factors in older populations . Despite pain usually being more common with increasing age, we found persistent knee and/or hip pain within the previous month to be prevalent in a substantial part of younger adults (i.e. 22% of 29–39 year olds and in 25% of 40–49 year olds), which is consistent with other studies . Given the link between persistent knee/hip pain and later development of Osteoarthritis;, we considered it a useful way to investigate if typical risk factors of Osteoarthritis; were also prevalent at younger ages and to determine their association with persistent pain . The observed presence of modifiable Osteoarthritis; risk factors (e.g. obesity and joint injury) in the younger age groups is an important finding, as it highlights factors that can potentially be targeted with weight management and injury prevention programs . Further, primary health care professionals should also consider these factors when younger patients present in the clinic with joint pain, as it may help motivating patients to engage in secondary prevention interventions such as exercise therapy and/or weight management to prevent or postpone Osteoarthritis; development . Joint injury was found to be associated with knee and/ or hip pain across all age groups. Typically, an injury results in pain and functional loss, and will in some cases be treated with surgery. Thus, the group of participants that reported an injury was nearly identical to the group that reported surgery. This likely explains the lack of association between pain and surgery in the multivariable models, while significant associations for both injury and surgery were observed in univariate analyses. Higher prevalence’s of injury and surgery were found in people with prolonged persistent knee pain than in those with hip pain. This may reflect that knee injury is more common in sports than hip injury . In addition, an earlier study showed that a knee joint injury at younger age was associated with knee Osteoarthritis; development, although none of the individuals with a hip injury (n = 13) developed hip Osteoarthritis; . with hip Osteoarthritis; development . Thus, separating data for the knee and the hip joint could potentially be important. Similarly, self-reported presence of varus knee, valgus knee, and toe-in/out angles during early adult life has been reported to be associated with increased risk of knee but not hip Osteoarthritis; . We reported the prevalence of malalignment separately for the population with prolonged knee pain and the population with prolonged hip pain. However, we could not assess the association of malalignment with prolonged knee and hip pain as malalignment was not assessed in individuals without knee/hip problems. In our study, we did not find any association between leisure time physical activity level and knee/hip pain. Similar findings were reported in a study on adults aged 50 years or older (n = 1276) where the same percentage of individuals with and without knee pain met physical activity recommendations . It should be noted, that only few people in all ages groups were involved in high-level physical activities in the present study. Some limitations apply to this study. We had no information on the Osteoarthritis; status of respondents. Thus, it is likely that some patients, particularly in the older age group, may have had structural and clinical symptoms consistent with Osteoarthritis;. The time of onset of osteoarthritis is not a clear, unambiguous event and therefore the extent to which intervention targeted at modifiable risk factors present in this symptomatic population aged 29– 59 years would represent primary or secondary prevention of osteoarthritis is necessary blurred. Given the known strong age-related increase in prevalence of osteoarthritis across this age range it is likely that as one moves towards the upper end of this age range interventions are increasingly likely to be on cases of early or established osteoarthritis. We did not distinguish between pain originating from the hip or the knee joint in the first stage of the survey. This was only specified in the second stage of the survey including participants reporting knee/hip problems in the first survey. Similarly, prolonged persistent pain was also first recorded in the second stage of the survey, which is the reason for only reporting the prevalence of Osteoarthritis; risk factors in this subgroup. All data in the present study were self-reported with inherent risk of recall bias, and possibly over- or underreporting of pain and Osteoarthritis; risk factors. Recall error might also explain why the prevalence of injury did not increase by age as expected. Family information bias (i.e. better recall of disease presence in family members when this person suffers from the disease) or women more often being involved in social relations might explain the higher prevalence of family history of Osteoarthritis; in women versus men. In addition, selection bias could also be present because not all invited citizens responded to the survey, and individuals who did respond were more often older and women. Lastly, the psychometric properties have not been evaluated for all the questions used. In this population-based study, knee and hip pain were found in more than 20% of participants, even in the youngest age group of 29–39 year olds where the prevalence of established radiographic Osteoarthritis; is known to be low. In addition, multiple known risk factors for knee and hip Osteoarthritis;, such as higher body mass index;, were found to be associated with the presence of knee and/or hip pain. Joint injuries and surgeries were more prevalent in individuals with knee than hip pain. This information supports the notion that joint injury and overweight during early adulthood are signs of a trajectory towards symptomatic osteoarthritis later in life and may help earlier identification of groups at high risk of future symptomatic osteoarthritis.