Osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) is a multifactorial widespread chronic rheumatic condition leading to difculty performing daily activities  and psychosocial factors which contribute to prolonged activity , pain chronifcation , and treatment efectiveness . In addition to pain and physical disability, pain catastrophizing, self-efcacy, and kinesiophobia are the expected consequences of knee Osteoarthritis; . In understanding clinical features related to knee Osteoarthritis;, such as physical limitation, psychological factors might ofer something additional beyond what might be explained by traditional factors, underscoring the importance of multidisciplinary treatment approaches in knee Osteoarthritis; management . Diferent therapeutic exercise programs (e.g., aerobic, strengthening, or a combination of diferent types of exercise) have been introduced to improve knee Osteoarthritis; . To date, studies have investigated the infuence of Pilates exercises (Pilates exercises) on the improvement of rheumatological conditions . Pilates exercises, unlike traditional programs, afects strength, cardiovascular and respiratory function, and additional benefts, including enhanced coordination, proprioceptive acuity, and state of wellbeing . Oksuz et al. (2017) reported that a clinical Pilates exercises, based on cognitive behavioral therapy, can positively afect kinesiophobia, pain, and functional status in individuals with osteoporosis . Similarly, a previous investigation showed the superiority of Pilates exercises over kneestrengthening exercises in improving pain and disability in subjects with knee Osteoarthritis; . However, there is not yet adequate evidence showing that Pilates exercises includes a clear and specifc focus on psycho-cognitive components of pain , which necessitates adding a psychological-based approach. Pain neuroscience education (Pain neuroscience education) has been introduced as an efective intervention for improving patients’ knowledge of pain, reducing pain and central sensitization and improving psychological factors . Tis educates the subject on the mechanism behind chronic pain and reframes unhelpful and negative beliefs about pain . Watson et al. (2019) concluded that Pain neuroscience education can reduce pain, disability, pain catastrophizing, and kinesiophobia in the short to medium term in those with chronic musculoskeletal pain . On the other hand, Lluch et al. (2018) reported that although Pain neuroscience education combined with knee joint mobilization did not produce any additional benefts for knee pain and disability in knee Osteoarthritis; patients, it efectively reduced pain catastrophizing and kinesiophobia . Allowing the participants to tell their own story,provided in Pain neuroscience education sessions, can be a key component of improving the individual experience of pain education and pain reconceptualization, which seems to be an important process to facilitate participants’ ability to cope with their condition . Prescribing exercise therapy and education were the most recommended interventions for improving musculoskeletal pain . Moreover, using pain education as an isolated intervention has resulted in 45% less health care expenditure, and its efect was maintained after three years . However, it seems that pain management approaches are not yet popular to use by physical therapists in clinical settings . Besides, there is a lack of knowledge in the prescription of pain management, making pain a bigger barrier in areas where knowledge is lacking . Tus, emphasizing the importance of education and efective therapeutic exercise(s) must be highlighted. Terefore, we aimed to conduct a randomized controlled trial (Randomized controlled trial;) to provide pilot data investigating the efect of Pain neuroscience education followed by Pilates exercises in those who sufered from knee Osteoarthritis;, compared to Pilates exercises alone. We hypothesized that participants receiving Pain neuroscience education followed by Pilates exercises would have superiority over those in Pilates exercises group to reduce pain and physical limitation, improve psychological factors, and improve function through eight weeks post-treatment. Tis was a two-arm, assessor-blind pilot Randomized controlled trial; performed between early July 2021 and early March 2022. Te study was approved by the ethical committees of the Sport Sciences Research Institute (IR.SSRC.REC.1400.033) and prospectively registered at www.irct.ir (IRandomized controlled trial;20210701051754N1). Te study was reported following the Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials (CONsolidated Standards of Reporting Trials;) guideline , and all experimental conditions conformed to the Declaration of Helsinki . All participants provided written informed consent before enrolment. Participants were recruited through fyers in physical therapy clinics, social media, and adverts. Based on the inclusion criteria, eligible participants were enrolled to participate in the study. Of 92 enrolled participants, 54 met the criteria to enter the study. Participants were eligible to participate if they: were Persian-native speakers males and females complained of knee pain diagnosed as chronic tibiofemoral joint Osteoarthritis; (> 3 months). Te American College of Rheumatology classifcation system, with 91% sensitive and 86% specifc, was used for a diagnosis of tibiofemoral joint Osteoarthritis; if a person has knee pain and osteophytes confrmed by radiography with the following conditions: experiencing stifness for less than 30 min in the morning, having crepitus, and being older than 50 years of age . Additionally, Osteoarthritis; grade 2 or 3 on the Kellgren/Lawrence classifcation based on plain radiographs , as evaluated by an orthopedic physician with more than 10 years of clinical experience, has been considered. Exclusion criteria were: other forms of arthritis than Osteoarthritis; (e.g., crystal arthropathy, septic arthritis, spondyloarthropathy) identifed by radiography, presence of comorbidity resulting in severe activity limitations, total knee arthroplasty (Total knee arthroplasty;) or Total knee arthroplasty; shortly, severe knee pain > 80 in a 0–100 Visual Analog Scale, knee ligament or meniscus injury in the previous year, any mental health conditions, and therapeutic modalities six months before participation, . Following the baseline examination, by using the method on the website http://randomizer.org/ (Social Psychology Network, Connecticut, USA), participants were randomly assigned to the Pain neuroscience education, followed by the Pilates exercises group and Pilates exercises group. In a simple randomisation, the concealed allocation was performed using a computer-generated block randomized table of numbers created before the start of data collection by a researcher who was not involved in the recruitment or treatment of participants. Block randomization was performed to ensure balance in the number of participants between the groups (block size of 12 participants). Ten, the random numerical sequence was placed in sealed opaque envelopes. Next, another researcher opened an envelope and processed with treatment according to the group assignment. Te participants were assessed within a week before the intervention (baseline) and after an eight-week intervention (post-treatment) by a blind assessor with over seven years of experience. Te primary outcomes were pain and physical limitation, and the secondary outcomes were pain catastrophizing, kinesiophobia, self-efcacy, and function. Participants were asked to complete the indexes for demographic information, pain, physical limitation, pain catastrophizing, kinesiophobia, and self-efcacy online. At the same time, the function assessment was performed in person at the biomechanics laboratory. Pain and physical limitation. Persian version of the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;) index is a valid and reliable (Interclass correlation coefcient;=0.63 to 0.94) tool for assessing pain and physical limitation in Osteoarthritis; participants . It has 5 items for measuring pain and 17 items for physical limitation. Te test questions are scored on a scale of 0–4, which correspond to none (0), mild (1), moderate (2), severe (3), and extreme (4). Te scores for each subscale are summed up, with a possible score range of 0–20 for pain and 0–68 for physical limitation. For pain, participants are asked to indicate their pain level during walking, using stairs, in bed, sitting or lying, and standing upright. For physical limitation, participants need to score their level of limitation while using stairs, rising from sitting, standing, bending, walking, getting in/out of a car, shopping, putting on / taking of socks, rising from bed, lying in bed, getting in/out of the bath, sitting, getting on / of toilet, heavy domestic duties, light domestic duties . Pain Catastrophizing. Pain Catastrophizing Scale (Pain Catastrophizing Scale) consists of 13 items scored on a fve-point Likert scale and measures aspects of catastrophic cognitions about pain-rumination that individuals may have when experiencing pain. Higher scores indicate more severe catastrophic thoughts about pain . Te reliability of the Persian version of Pain Catastrophizing Scale has been previously confrmed (Interclass correlation coefcient;=0.93) . Kinesiophobia. Tampa Scale for Kinesiophobia (Tampa Scale for Kinesiophobia) contains 17 items related to fear of movement and reinjury. Te score ranges from 17 to 68 (scores≤37 presenting low fear and scores > 37 presenting high fear of movement) . Persian version of Tampa Scale for Kinesiophobia has been previously reported as valid and reliable (Interclass correlation coefcient;=0.77 to 0.78) . Self-efcacy. Te Persian version of the Pain Self-Efcacy Questionnaire (Pain Self-Efcacy Questionnaire) was used to assess self-efcacy as a valid and reliable questionnaire (Interclass correlation coefcient;=0.92) . {Asghari, 2009 #17;Asghari, 2009 #14} Te Pain Self-Efcacy Questionnaire is a 10-item questionnaire ranging from 0 to 60 to assess participants’ confdence in their ability to perform various activities despite pain. For example: “I can do most of the household chores (e.g., tidying up, washing dishes), despite the pain”, and “I can gradually increase my activity level, despite the pain. Lower scores for the Pain Self-Efcacy Questionnaire indicate lower levels of confdence . Function. Te Timed "Up & Go" (Time-up-and-Go) test is a valid and reliable test extensively used for assessing function in Osteoarthritis; participants  with Interclass correlation coefcient;=0.95–0.97 . Te chair height used for all tests was 41 cm, and the time required to complete the Time-up-and-Go was recorded in seconds. Participants needed to rise from their chair without using the hand rests; walk as quickly as they could over 3 m, marked by a line of tape; turn around once they crossed the tape; return to the chair; and sit down. Participants did not have to use gait aids during the Time-up-and-Go or other tests . Pain neuroscience education. Before participating in Pilates exercises, participants in the Pain neuroscience education, followed by the Pilates exercises group, took part in three Pain neuroscience education sessions held by a licensed nativespeaker physical therapist (A) with more than fve years of experience and knowledge about pain science and exercise therapy. Each Pain neuroscience education session lasted approximately 30 to 60 min for each participant, and the topic(s) for each session was based on the practice guideline developed by Nijs et al. (2011) . Te main aims of Pain neuroscience education were to reframe the participant’s unhelpful and negative beliefs about pain and decrease the threatening feeling of pain by providing the participant with information about the nature of pain. Tese beliefs might have been imposed by potentially unhelpful diagnostic, prognostic, or therapeutic conclusions in the participant’s mind. In Pain neuroscience education, providing the subjects with information about the nature of pain was targeted to reduce fear avoidance and avoidance behavior and to increase self-efcacy . Pain neuroscience education includes the important points in nontechnical terms: neurophysiology of pain, peripheral sensitization, and central sensitization delivered using verbal instructions, questions and answers, pictures, and free-hand drawings . As most of the participants had no educational background in pain mechanisms, and it was the frst time they received such information, a good-quality voice record of what was discussed at the education sessions with related pictures was provided for participants. Participants were recommended to listen to the record and check the diagrams whenever needed. Tis process could help the participants better understand what they were taught. Pilates exercise. Participants in each treatment group received exercises in group sessions. Participants in both groups received Pilates exercises for 24 sessions (eight weeks, three sessions each week) designed based on our previous study . Participants who received Pain neuroscience education continue their Pilates exercises on odd days by the same physical therapist (A) who has applied Pain neuroscience education. Using the same supervisor could help participants better communicate with their supervisor, and re-receive the important elements discussed in Pain neuroscience education sessions (e.g., decreasing threat level, assuring the safety of the exercises, and increasing confdence in a successful accomplishment of the exercise). Tose in the Pilates exercises group received their training on even days via another physical therapist (B) who was a native speaker, knowledgeable about Pilates exercises and had three years of experience. Each session took 60 min (10 min for warm-up, 40 min for Pilates exercises , and 10 min for cool-down). Te number of repetitions started from fve and gradually increased according to the participant’s ability (Table 1). Pilates exercises were deisgned based on six main principles. (1) Centering: physically bringing the focus to the center of the body to provide good protection for the spine and trunk and pass on power to each movement, (2) Control: doing every exercise with complete and conscious muscular control, (3) Precision: considering doing the exercise correctly and sustaining awareness throughout each movement, (4) Concentrating: bringing full attention to the exercise and doing them with full commitment, (5) Breath: being prepared by inhaling for the performing motion and exhale operation to move, activating trunk muscle and intensifying movement, and (6) Flow: doing exercises in a fowing manner, connecting the energy of an exercise to all body parts and fowing through the body in an even way . Sample size calculations were performed using G*Power (version 3.1.9.2, Dusseldorf, Germany). Te calculations were based on detecting diferences of 20 units in the pain intensity, considered as the minimum clinically important diference (Minimum clinically important diference), assuming a standard deviation of 17 (based on previous studies ). A medium efect size (f=0.25), an alpha level of 0.05, and a power of 0.80 were considered . Te calculation revealed that 22 participants were required in each group. To account for possible missing data and a 20% loss from participants missing follow-ups, 27 participants were included in each group. Data were analysed using SPSS-26. Kolmogorov– Smirnov was used for the normal distribution of the outcomes. Te homogeneity of the variations was observed using the Levene test. A general linear mixed model was used to compare outcome measures between groups over time (baseline and post-treatment) and group efects (Pain neuroscience education followed by Pilates exercises and Pilates exercises groups). Efect sizes and 95% confdence intervals (Confidence interval;s) were calculated to measure clinical meaningfulness. Efect sizes were expressed in partial eta squared (η 2 p), with values of 0.01, 0.06, and 0.14 representing small, medium, and large efects, respectively . Te group replaced for intention-totreat (Intention-to-treat;) analyses, missing baseline data means. Te psychological characteristics (pain catastrophizing, kinesiophobia, and self-efcacy) were independent variables. Statistical signifcance was set at an α level of<0.05. In total 54 participants with knee Osteoarthritis; were recruited. The baseline characteristics of the two groups were similar for demographic, and primary and secondary outcomes measures (Tables 2 and 3). Of these, three did not complete the study (Fig. 1). Compliance was 96.3% for the participants of Pain neuroscience education followed by Pilates exercises group and 92.6% for Pilates exercises group. No serious adverse events were reported in any of the intervention groups. Protocol deviations or adjustments did not occur for both group. Tere was no statistically signifcant or clinically important diference between groups in the primary outcome, pain (adjusted mean diference of -0.8; 95% Confidence interval; -2.2 to 0.7; p=0.288) and physical limitation (adjusted mean diference of -0.4; 95% Confidence interval; -4 to 3.1; p=0.812). In Pain neuroscience education followed by Pilates exercises group, pain, and physical limitation were respectively reduced by 31.1% and 21.7%, compared to Pilates exercises group 24.3% and 18.9% (Table 3). For the secondary outcomes, the pain catastrophizing (adjusted mean difference of -3.9; 95% Confidence interval; -7.2 to -0.6; p = 0.021), kinesiophobia (adjusted mean difference of -4.2; 95% Confidence interval; -8.1 to -0.4; p = 0.032), and self-efficacy (adjusted mean difference of 6.1; 95% Confidence interval; 0.7 to 11.5; p = 0.028) revealed a statistically significant between-group difference, favoring the Pain neuroscience education followed by Pilates exercises group at 8-weeks after treatment. This amounted to a 21.5% reduction in kinesiophobia for the Pain neuroscience education followed by Pilates exercises group and a 10.3% decrease for Pilates exercises group. Pain catastrophizing in Pain neuroscience education followed by Pilates exercises group reduced by 37.9% and declined by 19.3% in Pilates exercises group. The greatest Pain neuroscience education followed by Pilates exercises group improvements were for self-efficacy, by 40.5%, while Pilates exercises group scores increased by 21.5% (Table 3). Participants with a prior preference for the Pain neuroscience education followed by Pilates exercises might potentially benefit from the Pain neuroscience education followed by Pilates exercises after treatment compared to those with a preference for Pilates exercises with a difference of -0.8 function points (adjusted mean difference -0.8; 95% Confidence interval; -1.8 to 0.1; p=0.069) that did not reach statistical significance. In Pain neuroscience education, followed by Pilates exercises group, function improved by 24%, while it was 17.2% in Pilates exercises group (Table 3). Based on the fndings, the frst study’s hypothesis regarding the efect of Pain neuroscience education followed by Pilates exercises on pain and physical limitation was not accepted. Although clinical efectiveness was larger in the group of Pain neuroscience education followed by Pilates exercises, no statistically signifcant diferences were observed between the two groups. For the second hypothesis, Pain neuroscience education followed by the Pilates exercises group showed only statistically and clinically signifcant diferences compared to the Pilates exercises group in psychological outcomes. Finally, no diferences were found in the outcome of the function. Te efectiveness of prescribing Pain neuroscience education with therapeutic exercise is controversial. Two systematic review studies reported low clinical benefts of Pain neuroscience education in combination with other short- or medium-term therapeutic exercises for reducing pain and disability . Inconsistently, a recent review study found signifcant diferences in pain, disability, kinesiophobia, and pain catastrophizing that favored the combination of Pain neuroscience education and exercise . To support our results, Lluch et al. (2018) concluded that a preoperative program including Pain neuroscience education (similar to the pain education format of our study) and knee joint mobilization has a superior efect on pain catastrophizing and kinesiophobia over biomedical education and knee joint mobilization in knee Osteoarthritis; participants, while, no differences were found for pain and disability . Contrary to our fndings, Ryan et al. (2010) showed the short-term superiority of pain biology education over combined pain biology education and group exercise classes for improving of pain and pain self-efcacy in chronic low back pain participants . Te main diferences between Ryan et al. study and ours were related to the type of pain location (low back pain versus knee Osteoarthritis;) and exercise interventions. Ryan et al. provided group-based exercise focusing on strengthening, stretching, and cardiovascular ftness, 1 session each week for 6 weeks (overall 6 sessions of exercise), while we provided 24 sessions of Pilates exercises during 8 weeks. Tus, types of exercise and diferent dosages in a supervised manner may be the reasons behind the efectiveness of Pilates exercises with and without supplementary pain education sessions. Alongside this, one explanation for the lack of statistical efectiveness of Pain neuroscience education in reducing pain can be related to the number of educational sessions. Whereas in the current study, Pain neuroscience education was provided for three Pain neuroscience education sessions, the previous investigation showed that a higher dosage (six 45-min sessions) produced a larger improvement in pain . A higher dosage of educational sessions may provide the possibility of introducing and discussing new concepts and giving more time to teach and assimilate the concepts taught . In addition, the measurement of physical limitation and function was based on daily physical activities. It is speculated that Pilates exercises as a movement-based intervention could directly infuence these outcomes instead of Pain neuroscience education, which is a psychological-based approach. Regarding psychological outcomes, one-way pain education could be efective and increase the benefts of Pilates exercises associated with its potential to reduce the threat value of pain leading to fear of movements. Tis is observed that the efectiveness of pain education can achieve by targeting a clear and valid explanation of pain and symptoms in chronic pain participants  and improving participants’ understanding of pain by overcoming traditional beliefs (that pain results from and is related to tissue damage) toward a modern view that pain can be the result of central sensitization. In contrast, the real damage has been healed . Tis improvement in participants’ understanding and knowledge of pain can facilitate recovery by reconceptualizing the participant’s belief from pain control toward being active, which might have been avoided due to the fear of pain. Unlike the current results, our previous study showed that individualized Pain neuroscience education combined with motor control training has no additional benefts for pain and disability and psychological factors (e.g., fear-avoidance beliefs and self-efcacy) compared to a group-based intervention in participants with chronic low back pain . As the pain education program in both studies followed the same targets, the diferent results can be related to the pain location/types and the added exercises. Here, we used Pilates exercises to improve fexibility, general body perception and awareness, and activate lower limb muscles. As lower limb muscles’ weakness (gluteal, quadriceps, and hamstring) and reduced proprioceptive acuity are potentially modifable putative risk factors for knee Osteoarthritis; , we can speculate that Pilates exercises could be a more appropriate movement-based intervention to be added with a psychological one, both leading to better results. One unique procedure we used in the group of Pain neuroscience education followed by Pilates exercises was providing the same supervisor (physical therapist A) for both educational pain classes and Pilates exercises sessions. We believe this procedure may beneft participants via 1. receiving the same information from the same supervisor, 2. reminding pain education topics while doing Pilates exercises, making the educational classes into practice, and 3. better communication of participants with the allocated supervisor during the interventions. In a study by Ryan et al. (2010), the superiority of pain biology education over combined pain biology education and group exercise classes was mentioned because of “mixed information” provided by the supervisors for participants in the combined group . Te authors also stated that using diferent information may have led to confusion, and even frustration, on the participant’s part, which could have negatively impacted participant improvement . To support such an idea, Little et al. (2001) concluded that providing diferent amounts and formats of information can lead to poorer outcomes than using one set alone . Although we tried to overcome mixed information, further investigations are still required to test it. A unique quality of this study is that the study has been undertaken outside Europe/USA/Australia, where most of the pain science education studies have been carried out. Tis work in a non-western culture provides a unique insight into the potential efectiveness of Pain neuroscience education on a more global level. However, this is not without limitations. The first is related to blinding. In this study, participants were not blinded to the group allocation, and given measures of pain, physical limitation, and psychological outcomes were answered via participants (participants being the assessors). So, we can only claim that the assessor was blinded to the outcome of the function. The second is related to a small proportion of participants. Although the number of participants in each group was based on G*Power analysis, larger samples would have led to more precise estimates and reduced risk of a type II error. The third is the lack of evaluating attentional control of the participant’s time spent with the physical therapist. For example, in the Pain neuroscience education followed by the Pilates exercises group, participants interacted with their pain education physical therapist (A), even in the Pilates exercises sessions. These interaction has been previously investigated and shown important in treatment response . Compared to Pilates exercises alone, combining Pain neuroscience education with Pilates exercises could have only superior effects on psychological characteristics but not on pain, physical limitation, and function. Clinical effectiveness was more significant in the combined group for all study outcomes. This pilot Randomized controlled trial; emphasizes the need to investigate the combined effects of different interventions, including education and exercise therapy, in the format of fullscale studies. Abbreviations Osteoarthritis;: Osteoarthritis Pilates exercises: Pilates exercises Pain neuroscience education: Pain neuroscience education Randomized controlled trial;: Randomized controlled trial CONsolidated Standards of Reporting Trials;: CONsolidated Standards of Reporting Trials Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;: Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Pain Catastrophizing Scale: Pain Catastrophizing Scale Tampa Scale for Kinesiophobia: Tampa Scale for Kinesiophobia Pain Self-Efcacy Questionnaire: Pain Self-Efcacy Questionnaire Time-up-and-Go: Timed "Up & Go" Minimum clinically important diference: Minimum clinically important diference Intention-to-treat;: Intention-to-treat