Socioeconomic Status (Standard error;S) has attracted increasing interest as a determinant of both prevalence and outcomes for chronic health conditions. While observations relating socioeconomic status and health date at least as far back as the late 18th century , systematic collection of data in the past 50 years has greatly improved our understanding of the extent of health disparities . Te literature on health disparities regarding musculoskeletal disorders, such as osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;), is less extensive than in other areas of medicine, but has garnered increased attention in the last few decades . Various studies have examined the relationship between Standard error;S and Osteoarthritis; prevalence, showing higher prevalence rates amongst lower-Standard error;S groups . Similarly, a growing number of studies are beginning to paint a picture of a relationship between lower Standard error;S and worse Osteoarthritis; outcomes . Life-course epidemiology has identifed lower Standard error;S during childhood as an important predictor of adult health . A growing body of evidence shows an association between low childhood Standard error;S and increased prevalence of arthritis and of musculoskeletal pain (of which knee and hip Osteoarthritis; probably play a large part). Tis relationship is partially mediated by adult Standard error;S, consistent with the pathway model of life-course epidemiology . To our knowledge, only one study has directly examined the relationship of childhood Standard error;S with arthritis outcomes. It found that low childhood Standard error;S is associated with higher disability and worse physical health amongst patients with arthritis (of whom most sufered from Osteoarthritis;), after adjusting for current Standard error;S, age, sex, race, Body Mass Index (body mass index;) and comorbidities . Since the relationship of life course Standard error;S and Osteoarthritis; outcomes can be context-dependent, an important research gap remains in determining this relationship in Low and Middle Income countries and, in particular, in Latin America, where exposure to low Standard error;S throughout the lifecourse is higher . Te aim of this study was to examine the association of current and childhood Standard error;S with patient-reported functional status, quality of life and disability in a sample of patients with self-reported doctor-diagnosed primary knee or hip osteoarthritis seeking care in a family practice setting in Mexico City We conducted a cross-sectional study amongst individuals seeking care for any medical reason in a primary care family-practice clinic belonging to the Mexican Social Security Institute (Imass spectrometry;S) in Mexico City. We included adult patients 40 years or older with self-reported doctor-diagnosed knee or hip Osteoarthritis; who signed informed consent. We excluded patients suffering from rheumatoid arthritis or other rheumatic conditions susceptible to causing secondary Osteoarthritis;, as well as those who did not complete the general patient data questionnaire or withdrew consent after completion of questionnaires. There were no other exclusion criteria regarding sex, body size, or any other patient characteristic. Patients were recruited through waiting room posters and invitations by family physicians from the clinic. At study entry, patients were asked the following question: “Has a physician ever told you that your knees or hips have osteoarthritis, osteoarthrosis, or that your joints are worn out?” Patients who answered positively were invited to complete the questionnaires. Because recruitment posters and invitations were targeted at patients with Osteoarthritis;, all patients who approached the study answered afrmatively. To assess functional status, we used the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index). Te Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index is a widely used instrument to evaluate functional status for patients with osteoarthritis of the knee or hip. It consists of 24 questions about pain (3 questions), stifness (2 questions) and physical function (17 questions). Each question is scored on a Likert scale from 0 to 4, leaving a total score ranging from 0 to 96, with higher scores indicating worse functional status . Te Spanish-language version of the questionnaire has been validated . To measure disease-specifc quality of life we used the Osteoarthritis of Lower Limbs and Quartiles;uality of Life (AMultiple Imputation;CAL) questionnaire. Te questionnaire consists of 43 questions addressing quality-of-life domains such as physical activities, mental health, social functioning and social support. Each question is scored on a Likert scale from 0 to 10, and scores from 7 questions are reversed, leaving a total score ranging from 43 to 430 with higher scores indicating worse quality of life . Te questionnaire has been translated and culturally adapted into Spanish, and the version has been shown to have reliable test characteristics . Finally, we used the Stanford Health Assessment Quartiles;uestionnaire-Disability Index (Hyaluronic acid;Quartiles;-DI) to assess degree of disability. Te Hyaluronic acid;Quartiles;-DI consists of 20 questions concerning a patient’s ability to get dressed, get up, eat, walk, wash, reach for objects, grab things and carry out daily activities. Each question is scored on a scale ranging from 0 (no difculty) to 3 (unable to do it). Additionally, patients are asked whether they need specialized equipment or assistance from others to carry out these activities. Te highest score from each category is considered, and the 8 categories are averaged, leaving a score ranging from 0 to 3, with higher scores indicating more disability . Te Spanish-language version has been validated . We asked patients to complete a general data questionnaire including questions on level of education and occupation type for both themselves and their parents. In Mexico, only about 20% of adults aged 50 or over have completed high-school, and there are signifcant inequities between groups achieving diferent levels of education. We therefore categorized level of education according to the highest achieved level out of 4 into which the school system is divided, leaving a total of 5 categories: less than elementary school (<6 years), complete elementary school (6 years), middle-school (9 years), high-school (12 years), and college-level education (the equivalent to a B.A degree) or higher. Occupation was measured as patients self-classifying their predominant lifetime occupation into one of four types: Manual labor, non-managerial ofce work, managerial work and “home occupation” (mostly women who identifed as housewives). Tis last category is widely used in surveys in Mexico. Direct questions about total annual income are notoriously unreliable in Mexico. Terefore, to measure income, we administered Gutiérrez et al.’s “Simplifed measurement of socioeconomic status” questionnaire, which has been shown to reliably estimate income quintile in the general Mexican population. Te questionnaire consists of 8 questions pertaining possession of goods and access to services, namely: owning a DVD player, a microwave oven, a phone, a home, a computer and a car; and having cable TV and internet service at home. Each good or service is multiplied by a weight – obtained from a national income survey – and then added together. Finally, the resulting index is classifed into quintiles (Higher quintiles meaning greater income). Te authors that developed this index have shown that it has a high correlation (Spearman’s rho of 0.85) with the income quintiles of the national income distribution as measured through much more extensive questionnaires in specialized surveys . Because only 3% of patients in our sample had an estimated income in the lowest quintile, we grouped them with patients with estimated income in the second-lowest quintile. Finally, childhood Standard error;S was assessed through the proxies of maternal and paternal education level, and maternal and paternal occupation type, which were categorized in the same manner as the participants’. Statistical analysis We used descriptive statistics for all variables. In order to assess the similarity between the three assessed outcome scores, we calculated pairwise Pearson correlation coefcients. For ordinal variables education level, paternal and maternal education, and income quintile, we measured the correlation with the patient-reported outcomes by calculating Spearman coefcients (“rho”). For categorical variables occupation type, paternal and maternal occupation we used Kruskal-Wallis tests to identify diferences in health outcomes, with post-hoc pairwise comparisons using Dunn tests with Bonferroni correction for comparisons against a specifed group (Managerial ofce work). In order to adjust for possible confounders (age and sex) and for the efect of mediators that we considered not of interest (body mass index; and presence of Diabetes and Hypertension), we ft linear regression models of all 3 outcomes against each current or childhood Standard error;S variables, frst independently and then concurrently. We squared-roottransformed the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index score in all models as this allowed fulflling the necessary statistical assumptions for lineal models. Te highest education and income categories were used as reference categories, while “Managerial ofce work” was used as reference category for variables pertaining to occupation. To further analyze the relationships between childhood and adult Standard error;S and outcomes, we chose the variable for each life course stage that best predicted the outcomes overall which led us to ft models regressing outcomes against maternal education and current income quintile, adjusting for age, sex, body mass index; and presence of diabetes and hypertension. Finally, we dichotomized these two variables to construct “Standard error;S trajectories” out of the four possible resulting combinations (Low Maternal Education/ Low Current Income; Low Maternal Education/ High Current Income; High Maternal Education/Low Current Income; and High Maternal Education/High Current Income), and regressed the outcomes against this new compound variable adjusting for covariates. All statistical analyses were done using R software version 4.1.0, with a chosen significance threshold value of p < 0.05. Missing data were omitted from each analysis. We recruited 154 patients and excluded 8 patients (5 with rheumatoid arthritis, 1 with undiferentiated arthritis and 2 who withdrew consent), leaving a total of 146 patients for fnal analysis (Fig. 1). Relevant patient characteristics are shown in Table 1. A majority (80%) of patients were female, with a mean age of 69.4 years. Tere was a highly signifcant and strong correlation between the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index, AMultiple Imputation;CAL and Hyaluronic acid;Quartiles;-DI scores, with pairwise Pearson correlation coefcients>0.7 (p<0.001) for the three possible pairs of scores (Fig. 2). Analysis of current Standard error;S variables showed that all three outcome scores were inversely correlated with both estimated current income quintile (Fig. 3A) and higher education level (Fig. 3B). In general, there were signifcant diferences in all three outcome scores according to patients’ occupation. However, subgroup analysis showed that compared to patients with managerial ofce work, only patients dedicated to manual labor had signifcantly higher scores (Fig. 3C). Regarding childhood Standard error;S, both maternal and paternal education were inversely correlated with AMultiple Imputation;CAL scores, but not Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index or Hyaluronic acid;Quartiles;-DI scores. Tere were signifcant diferences in AMultiple Imputation;CAL, but not Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index or Hyaluronic acid;Quartiles;-DI scores, by maternal occupation type, and no signifcant diferences in any score by paternal occupation type (Fig. 4). Linear regression models demonstrated that all three current Standard error;S measures (Current Income, Education Level and Occupation type) were associated with all three outcome scores (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index, AMultiple Imputation;CAL and Hyaluronic acid;Quartiles;-DI) independently of age, sex, body mass index;, and presence of diabetes or hypertension, except for Occupation type with Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index scores which did not reach statistical signifcance (Fig. 5). However, when all three current Standard error;S variables were entered concurrently in linear regression models, only current income quintile remained associated with the three outcome scores. Occupation type was associated only with the AMultiple Imputation;CAL score, while the association between education and any score disappeared (Fig. 6). Similarly, after adjusting for age, sex, body mass index; and presence of Diabetes and hypertension, the association of maternal and paternal education with AMultiple Imputation;CAL scores remained signifcant. Additionally, maternal education was associated with the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index, but not the Hyaluronic acid;Quartiles;-DI score. Paternal education was not associated with either the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index or the Hyaluronic acid;Quartiles;-DI score. Similarly, maternal manual occupation was associated with signifcantly higher AMultiple Imputation;CAL and Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index scores, but not Hyaluronic acid;Quartiles;-DI scores, while paternal manual occupation was associated with the AMultiple Imputation;CAL and Hyaluronic acid;Quartiles;-DI scores (Fig. 7). Strong collinearity between the diferent childhood Standard error;S variables (e.g. Spearman’s rho for maternal and paternal education=0.78) prevented us from entering all childhood Standard error;S variables in a single model. In mutually adjusted models (i.e. including maternal education and current income in the same model), current income had a signifcant efect on all outcome scores, while maternal education did not (Fig. 8A). Finally, linear regression models of Standard error;S trajectories showed that outcome scores were infuenced by these trajectories, although the efect appears to be driven particularly by current income level (Fig. 8B). Our results show that lower current Standard error;S – as measured through income, education or occupation type – is associated with worse functional status, quality of life and disability amongst patients with Osteoarthritis;. Our study suggests that in our population, current income is the Standard error;S variable that best predicts outcome, as the efect of childhood Standard error;S, education and occupation type appears to be largely mediated by it. Tis can be cautiously interpreted as evidence for the hypothesis that material deprivation pathways may play a role in shaping Osteoarthritis; outcome disparities. Childhood Standard error;S also seems to afect some outcomes – particularly quality of life. Although the efect of Childhood Standard error;S appears largely mediated by current Standard error;S, our study may have been underpowered to detect a direct efect after multiple adjustments. Our results also provide further evidence that the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index, AMultiple Imputation;CAL and Hyaluronic acid;Quartiles;-DI scores capture important and similar dimensions – with some variations – of disease severity for hip and knee osteoarthritis in primary care settings. Tis suggests that the use of these three questionnaires may be equivalent in clinical settings, and that clinicians treating Osteoarthritis; patients (particularly in primary care settings) may potentially use any of these questionnaires to assess clinical status in patients with Osteoarthritis;, with the choice largely determined by personal preferences and system-level factors. Use of validated tools to assess disease severity can improve management of Osteoarthritis;. As discussed by Luong et al.,  both socioeconomic behavioral patterns and – more importantly – harmful exposures associated with lower Standard error;S through the life course may explain the worse functional status and disability scores, while psychosocial factors may add on to these to infuence quality of life . Social-to-biological pathways, such as increased systemic infammation amongst people of lower Standard error;S  may well play a role in explaining our results, which are also in line with studies reporting more musculoskeletal pain and generally worse quality of life with decreasing Standard error;S. Important strengths of our study include being, to our knowledge, the frst study to examine the relationship between childhood Standard error;S and Osteoarthritis; outcomes in a Latin American context, and one of few studies to do so worldwide. Major limitations include its cross-sectional nature, small sample size and inherent limitations of measuring a complex construct such as Socioeconomic Status, forcing gross approximations through proxy variables such as income, education and occupation type. Similarly, we were limited by the small number of people in the lowest income groups included in the study, which was due to the fact that our Social Security clinic serves only the families of people with formal employment in a middle to upper-middle class neighborhood. Taken together with previously mentioned studies showing associations of lower childhood and current Standard error;S with higher prevalence and worse outcomes of Osteoarthritis;, our study adds to the evidence base on lifecourse social determinants of health as they relate to musculoskeletal diseases. Furthermore, it shows current income to be the most important Standard error;S predictor of Osteoarthritis; outcomes. While further research is needed to elucidate the infuence of socioeconomic life-course trajectories on both Osteoarthritis; incidence and outcomes, and the pathways that mediate this relationship, we believe this study joins others in calling for action on social determinants to reduce health disparities.