Osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) is one of the most common chronic degenerative joint diseases caused by abnormal metabolism of joint tissues. It usually manifests as early onset pain, followed by stifness, swelling, injury of periarticular tissue, limited activity and deformity , all of which can afect the patient’s quality of life . As one of the primary load-bearing joints, the knee is frequently afected by Osteoarthritis;. In China, due to the aging population and economic development that has led more people to seek medical treatment, and the occurrence rate of knee Osteoarthritis (KOsteoarthritis;) has been increasing annually from 2008 to 2017. Moreover, KOsteoarthritis; is no longer exclusive to the elderlies, an increasing number in the younger population are also sufering from this disease, and all of which yield to a substantial burden on the public health resources in China . In the early stages of KOsteoarthritis;, it should be treated conservatively with the primary goal of alleviating joint pain in mild to moderate KOsteoarthritis; . Pharmacological therapies including non-steroidal anti-infammatory drugs, acetaminophen, glucosamine, and chondroitin sulfate only can provide temporary pain relief in addition to having toxic side efects . Te recommended safe and longterm measures, which include patient education, physical exercise, and weight management, are mostly preventive and relatively difcult to implement . Traditional moxibustion (Traditional moxibustion;) is a commonly used alternative therapy for KOsteoarthritis; in Asia . Te efcacy of Traditional moxibustion; is considered to result from a combination of factors , among them, near-infrared (NIR) light is generally thought to play a major role in the biological radiation efect of moxibustion. Te NIR radiation can induce active substances to promote the metabolism and thermogenesis of the organs reached by the NIR rays, thereby adjusting the body’s immune and neurological functions by energizing cell metabolism . Other studies indicated that photobiomodulation plays an active role in anti-infammatory and analgesia . In recent years, the Chinese regime has been greatly emphasizing on the integration of traditional Chinese medicine (Traditional Chinese medicine;) instruments with modern science and technology, and some novel moxibustion instruments have been developed to minimize the adverse efects of Traditional moxibustion; while maintaining its efectiveness . However, the currently available instruments have two major problems: (1) the working temperature is much lower than the burning temperature of natural moxa pillars; and (2) the characteristics of moxibustion burning infrared spectrum have not yet compiled a unifed standard, so none of these instruments can actualize a high simulation of the natural moxibustion emission spectrum and hindering the therapeutic efects. For the above reasons, we will set up an infrared emissivity test system to accurately test for a reliable basic data of moxibustion emission spectrum, and then regulate the emission spectrum of the material by regulating the composition structure of infrared ceramics/graphene to realize the coupling between it and the absorption spectrum of human acupoints . On this basis, we use a Mg–ZrO2/ graphene specifed composite ceramic block as the key material of emission light source to develop infrared laser moxibustion (Infrared laser moxibustion;). Terefore, we designed a Zelen-design randomized controlled noninferiority clinical trial to (1) preliminarily investigate whether Infrared laser moxibustion; is non-inferior to Traditional moxibustion; in reducing pain and improving function in patients with KOsteoarthritis;; and (2) provide clinical evidence to verify whether Infrared laser moxibustion; can become a safe and reliable clinical alternative to Traditional moxibustion; in the future. Te Zelen-design randomized controlled non-inferiority clinical trial will be conducted at Beijing Electric Power Hospital of the State Grid Corporation of China and AMHT Group Aerospace 731 Hospital. Te trial protocol is in accordance with the Standard Protocol Items: Recommendations for Interventional Trials; guidelines and the CONsolidated Standards of Reporting Trials; guidelines,  and the above two checklists are provided as Additional fle 1. Tis trial was approved by the Beijing University of Traditional Chinese Medicine on 17 October 2022 (Ethics Reference No: 2022BZYLL1017). In view of the ethical requirements of current clinical trials, the schedule of recruitment, randomization, informed consent, intervention, and assessment are shown in Fig. 1. Tis clinical trial is currently recruiting patients. Enrollment started in November 2022 Recruitment will be facilitated by the outpatient departments of the two hospitals and advertising on the We Chat platform. All treatments, assessments, blood tests, and knee X-rays will be provided free of charge. And at the end of the study, we will provide participants with a subsidy based on each patient’s degree of cooperation. Te inclusion criteria were as follows: (1) Diagnosed with KOsteoarthritis; according to the American College of Rheumatology criteria . (2) Aged 40–70 years old. (3) Average pain score of 4 or more out of 10 on the numeric rating scale (Numeric rating scale;) . (4) Average severity score of 48 or less on the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;) . (5) Standard radiographs with Kellgren–Lawrence (Kellgren & Lawrence;) grade II or III . (6) Written informed consent. (7) With basic reading and comprehension skills. Participants who fulfll the above seven criteria can be included in the trial. Te exclusion criteria were as follows: (1) Received knee surgery in the past six months or waiting for surgery. (2) Received acupuncture treatment for KOsteoarthritis; in the past three months. (3) Received an intra-articular injection for KOsteoarthritis; in the past six months. (4) Received arthroscopy for KOsteoarthritis; in the past year. (5) Had other diseases, infections, or traumatic injuries that could cause knee pain. (6) Had serious cardiovascular and cerebrovascular, respiratory, liver, kidney, metabolic system and other diseases, malignant tumors, mental disorders. (7) Allergic to moxibustion smoke or infrared light. (8) Pregnant or lactating. (9) Received other similar physiotherapy methods in the past month. Participants who met at least one of the exclusion criteria above will be excluded from the trial. A single-consent Zelen design will be used for allocation and randomization. An independent statistician will generate a random number table using the statistical software SPSS20.0, and the random seed will be set in advance. Each subject’s random number and treatment will be hidden in an opaque envelope. After enrollment assessment, all eligible participants will obtain an envelope in the order of entry. All participants who meet the inclusion criteria will be randomly assigned to the Traditional moxibustion; group (the proposed control group) or the Infrared laser moxibustion; group (the proposed treatment group) in a 1:1 ratio. Participants in the Infrared laser moxibustion; group will be asked if they are willing to comply with the current randomized treatment; if they agree, they will be placed in the Infrared laser moxibustion; group; if not, they will be automatically placed in the Traditional moxibustion; group. Participants in the Traditional moxibustion; group were directly enrolled without the above questioning process , all participants will sign informed consent forms before enrollment . Due to the particularity of Infrared laser moxibustion; treatment, it is difcult to deceive patients and clinicians during the study. However, the outcome evaluators, data collectors, and analysts will know nothing about the grouping and treatment of patients. Moxibustion treatment in the two groups (approximately 30 min in duration) will be administered three times per week over six weeks, and a follow-up evaluation will be performed at week 10. During the trial period, the participants will be prohibited from receiving relevant treatments, such as knee surgery, diagnostic arthroscopy, intra-articular injection, physiotherapy, acupuncture, massage therapy, and acupoint application. Both knees of subjects with bilateral osteoarthritis will be treated, but only the most painful knee will be selected for evaluation in each subject. If both knees are equally painful, the knee with the higher Kellgren & Lawrence; grade will be chosen , if the knee pain and Kellgren & Lawrence; ratings are the same on both sides, the knee joints for evaluation will be randomly selected using a random number table. Four acupoints, two obligatory acupoints and two adjunct acupoints will be selected for treatment (Fig. 2). Te obligatory acupoints are dubi (ST35) and neixiyan (EX-LE5), and the adjunct acupoints include liangqiu (ST34), xuehai (SP10), yinlingquan (SP9), yanglingquan (GB34), and zusanli (ST36). Moxibustion will be applied at two of the fve adjunct acupoints according to the location of pain and traditional Chinese medicine (Traditional Chinese medicine;) syndrome diferentiation for each person. All acupoints will be located according to the “WHO Standard Acupuncture Point Locations in the Western Pacifc Region” . Te use of hormones and opioids will be prohibited during the trial. Participants who have taken medication for hypertension, diabetes, or knee pain in the month prior to the start of the trial will continue to take medication during the study but will be required to specify the medication in the case report form (reasons, drug name, type, dose, the time of the intake, and whether the symptoms are relieved after taking the medicine). If the participants are not taking any medications before the trial, they will not take any medications during the study. If the patient develops new symptoms or diseases during the trial, any new drug should be approved by the investigator and should only be used if it does not afect the results of trial. Te device used for treatment in the Infrared laser moxibustion; group will be the Infrared laser moxibustion; shown in Fig. 3 (Chongqing Baixiao Medical Equipment Co. Ltd., model type BX-AJY-001).And the parameters of Infrared laser moxibustion; are shown in Table 1. Before treatment, the participant will be in the sitting or supine position, and the acupoints will be cleaned and disinfected with cotton balls soaked with 75% alcohol. Te researchers will then fx the moxibustion head on the corresponding part of the skin with Velcro and connect the wires. During treatment, the researchers will frst turn on the power, start the corresponding moxibustion head on the intelligent terminal. Te infrared radiation source of each infrared moxibustion head used in the test will be 5 cm away from the skin. Te diameter of the Infrared laser moxibustion; chamber in contact with the skin is 4 cm. Each treatment will last for 30 min. Te design of Infrared laser moxibustion; is aimed at imitating the actual situation and characteristics of Traditional moxibustion; burning. When the temperature of heat source is 470 °C, the corresponding temperature of human skin surface can reach about 45 °C, which is consistent with Traditional moxibustion; . If the participant has no obvious thermal sensation or temperature intolerance, the temperature of the infrared radiation source moxibustion can be gradually increased or decreased to a certain extent on the basis of 470 °C. Te moxibustion temperature should be tolerable and comfortable for the participants. During treatment, the patient’s general condition will be observed and recorded. Te control participants group will receive Traditional moxibustion; using the Baixiao moxibustion device shown in Fig. 3 (Dimension: 6.4 cm×3.8 cm, Chongqing Baixiao Medical Equipment Co. Ltd., model type BX-A002). Te researchers involved in the treatment will paste the moxibustion tube onto the acupoints with positioning paper, remove the moxibustion cover, install the moxibustion column, and buckle the column on the moxibustion tube after lighting. Te size of the inlet hole of the moxibustion tube can be adjusted by rotating the tube body left and right or pull and push the tube body up and down to moderate the moxibustion temperature. Te diameter of the Traditional moxibustion; chamber in contact with the skin is 3.8 cm. Te distance between the heat source and the skin is adjustable, ranging from 1.5 to 4 cm. Each moxibustion column can burn for approximately 30 min. Te burning of the moxibustion column is indicated by the disappearance of the thermal sensation and the cooling of the wall of the moxibustion device. Te assessment schedule is presented in Table 1. Te primary outcome, to be assessed at the end of the last treatment at week 6, is the change in pain from baseline using the Numeric rating scale; index . Te Numeric rating scale; index typically uses a 0–10 range instead of words to represent the degree of pain experienced by the subject: 0 indicates no pain; 1–3 indicates mild pain (occasional pain that generally does not interfere with walking); 4–6 indicates moderate pain (frequent pain that interferes with walking); 7–9 indicates severe pain (sustained pain that seriously interferes with or prevents walking); and 10 indicates the worst/ overwhelming pain. At the time of the evaluation, participants will be asked to mark the number on the scale that best represents their pain level in the last 24 h. Te Numeric rating scale; pain score will also be measured at the end of the last treatment each week (weeks 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5). Other secondary outcomes will include the changes in Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;, 36-Item Short Form Survey Instrument;, knee circumference, and 6-min walking test (6-Min walking test;) from baseline to endpoints (weeks 6 and 10): (1) Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;: Tis scale evaluates the comprehensive condition of the knee joint from three aspects: knee pain, stifness, and daily functional activities. Te Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; scale contains 24 items, with four points for each item. A higher score signifes worse knee function. Te Chinese version of this scale has good reliability and validity . (2) 36-Item Short Form Survey Instrument;: Tis scale consists of 36 items, including eight felds of physical function, arole physical, physical pain, general health status, vitality, social function, arole emotional, and mental health, and is used to assess the health-related quality of life of the subject. A higher score indicates better healthrelated quality of life . (3) Knee circumference: Te degree of swelling in the subject’s knee was assessed by measuring the knee circumference (i.e., the leg circumference at the center of the upper and lower edges of the patella) in millimeters. A uniform tape measure will be used to measure diferent patients . (4) 6-Min walking test;: Before the test, researchers will draw a 30-m straight line on fat ground and mark both ends of the line. During the test, the participants will walk back and forth in a straight line at their own speed. Te researchers will give the correct time every two minutes and calculate the distance walked by the participant at the end of six minutes. Potential discomfort such as fatigue, dizziness, angina pectoris, dyspnea and cold sweat will be recorded during the trial. Te trial will be suspended or discontinued if the patient cannot complete it. During the test, participants will be monitored with a unifed wristwatch for basic indicators such as heart rate and blood oxygen. Te Borg score of dyspnea and fatigue and other data will be recorded before and after the test (Table 2) . Te safety assessment will primarily include the recording of adverse events (Adverse events) and serious Adverse events, laboratory analyses, and monitoring throughout the exercise test. Adverse events occurring during treatment and follow-up will be recorded by the investigator on Adverse event questionnaires within 24 h of their occurrence. In addition to recording the time, severity, reaction, treatment, and prognosis of the Adverse events, the questionnaire will also focus on recording the potential relationship between Adverse events and Traditional moxibustion; or Infrared laser moxibustion; treatment. Te most common treatment-related Adverse events include skin redness, pruritus, scalding, blisters, and dizziness. If the Adverse event is severe, the patient will be suspended or withdrawn from the study and receive corresponding medical care or compensation. In addition, blood routine and C-reactive protein (Computed radiography;P) measurement will be conducted before and after treatment. Lastly, a uniform sports wristwatch will be used to monitor the participants’ heart rates during the 6-min walk test. Te trial protocol for this clinical study has been reviewed and confrmed by methodological and statistical experts in relevant felds, and the trial will be carried out in strict accordance with this protocol. Any changes to the protocol will need to be approved by the Ethics Committee. Before the study begins, all researchers involved in the treatment will be instructed and trained in the standardized operating procedures. Te training content will include the implementation steps and methods of the project, the operation methods of traditional moxibustion and the infrared ceramic graphene moxibustion device, and the management of adverse events. To ensure the quality and integrity of the trial, each clinical trial site will have a clinical supervisor specializing in acupuncture and moxibustion who will supervise the entire process. Te original data from this project will be recorded in detail in the individual case report forms (Case report form;s), informed consent form, clinical medical records, laboratory test sheets, and imaging data, all of which are traceable. Te investigator will manually fll out the Case report form;s for all patients. Te investigator will indicate their name and the date, periodically collect the data. Any changes made to the data and reasons for any missing data will also be indicated in the notes. Tree months after the publication of the clinical study, the original data will be shared through the ResMan platform of the Chinese Clinical Trial Registry (http://www. medresman.org.cn). Tis study is a randomized controlled non-inferior trial. Based on the literature, the smallest clinically signifcant diference in the pain Numeric rating scale; is 2 points . Tus, we set the non-inferiority margin to − 2. Te Numeric rating scale; score of the subjects after treatment was taken as the main outcome index. According to the results of similar studies,  the average Numeric rating scale; score of the experimental group was 40.53±26.63, and that of the control group was 41.58±15.07. So we used Patient Acceptable Symptom Scale 15 to calculate the sample size (29 participants in each group), α=0.025, 1−β=80%. Considering that a maximum of 25% dropped out during the trial, we ultimately plan to recruit 74 participants (37 in each group) to ensure the target sample size is obtained. Te calculation results of sample size are provided as Additional fle 2. Statistical analysis will be undertaken using both intention-to-treat (Intention-to-treat;) and per-protocol (Per-protocol;) analyses. For the Intention-to-treat; analysis, all patients who undergo the Zelen-type randomization and received at least one treatment will be analyzed. Primary Per-protocol; data analysis will also be undertaken for all patients who have high compliance (patient compliance rates equal to or greater than 80%) and do not use drugs or treatments prohibited by the protocol during treatment. Te statistical analysis will take the form of a noninferiority test. Te margin of non-inferiority is -2. For the main outcome, we will calculate the 95% confdence interval for the diference in Numeric rating scale; pain score between the treatment group and the control group. If the lower limit is greater than -2, non-inferiority will be considered valid. For continuous data, mean±standard deviation will be used to describe data that conforms to a normal distribution, whereas non-normally distributed continuous data will be described as the median (interquartile spacing). Where the data conforms to a normal distribution, independent sample t-test will be used for comparison between the two groups with homogeneity of variance; otherwise, a t-test will be used with heterogeneity of variance. Wilcoxon rank-sum test will be used if data does not conform to a normal distribution. Categorical data will be represented by frequency or percentage and compared using chi-square test or Fisher exact test. Missing data will be replaced according to the last observation carried forward method. Te 95% confdence interval will be calculated, and P<0.05 will be considered to indicate a signifcant diference. All statistical analysis will be performed using SPSS software (version 20.0). In recent years, as the state attaches great importance to the scientifc research and innovation of the Traditional Chinese medicine; industry, the combination of Traditional Chinese medicine; instruments and modern science and technology has become increasingly close, which has become a new direction for the development of Traditional Chinese medicine; instruments. However, the transformation of Traditional Chinese medicine; needles and instruments mostly stays in the original appearance, rarely using new technology, new materials and upgrading its core technology. Modern technologies such as infrared, laser and acupoint stimulation have been widely used in the research and development of Traditional Chinese medicine; instruments, but many of them have a single stimulation mode, which is easy to cause body tolerance and cannot achieve the efect of Traditional moxibustion; therapy. For the imitation moxibustion instruments on the market, the accurate simulation of Traditional moxibustion; cannot be achieved . Some of them are diferent from traditional moxibustion in terms of shape, size and heating area , some simply simulate the thermal efect of moxibustion sticks, lack of discussion and application of other functional factors . At the same time, due to the diferences in moxibustion materials, amount, application methods, burning conditions and the performance of infrared spectroscopy instruments for measurement over the past years, it is difcult to form a unifed standard for the characteristics of moxibustion infrared spectrum, let alone realize accurate simulation of it . Terefore, making full use of modern sensing technology, artifcial intelligence, biophysics and other new technologies, infrared ceramics/graphene and other new materials, breaking through technical bottlenecks, and establishing a common key technology platform based on the principles of Traditional Chinese medicine; diagnosis and treatment are the key breakthroughs in the current research and development of Traditional Chinese medicine; medical devices. Based on the above reasons, we have realized the full band infrared emissivity test of moxibustion in the early stage and developed Infrared laser moxibustion; which can realize accurate simulation of the temperature and emission spectrum of moxibustion combustion (the internal temperature is 736 °C; the external working temperature is about 470 °C; the wavelength corresponding to the peak of the emission spectrum is 3.98 μm) and efectively makes up for the defects of Traditional moxibustion; and existing moxibustion instruments . Tis study will be the frst clinical trial to evaluate infrared ceramic/graphene laser moxibustion for the treatment of KOsteoarthritis;. Te study will test the hypothesis that Infrared laser moxibustion; is not inferior to Traditional moxibustion; for the treatment of KOsteoarthritis;. Te Zelen-design adopted in this study is consistent with the real diagnosis and treatment environment, thereby minimizing the bias inherent in the traditional design of randomized controlled trials. During the trial, the willingness of patients or their guardians receive diferent treatments will be considered to help ensure the compliance of patients and the smooth conduct of the trial. Te primary priority in the treatment of KOsteoarthritis; is pain relief followed by maintaining normal knee function and improving quality of life; thus, we chose pain on the Numeric rating scale; as the primary outcome and Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;, 36-Item Short Form Survey Instrument;, knee circumference, and 6-Min walking test; as the secondary outcomes. For the safety evaluation, in addition to recording Adverse events, we will also conduct blood routine and Computed radiography;P detection before and after the trial. Computed radiography;P is one of the most commonly used laboratory indicators of systemic infammatory diseases. Te expression of Computed radiography;P increases in patients with Osteoarthritis; and is closely related to the progression and prognosis of the disease . Te proposed study has some limitations that should be acknowledged. First, this is a non-inferiority trail; thus, compared with superiority trials, some participants may have greater difculty adhering to the protocol for their treatment. Tis may result in incorrectly rejecting the null hypothesis . For this reason, the Zelen-design was used to improve patient compliance. Second, it is difcult to blind the researchers involved in the assignment and treatment due to the diferences in the nature of the treatments. Terefore, to reduce the risk of bias, the study evaluation will be conducted by people not involved in assignment or treatment. Tird, this will be a small-scale trial with a small sample size. Finally, this study will primarily use subjective scales to evaluate knee joint pain and function; objective physiological indicators are lacking. Te results of our study will help preliminarily determine whether the infrared ceramic graphene moxibustion device is non-inferior to traditional moxibustion in alleviating knee pain and improving related function in KOsteoarthritis; patients, therefore providing a suitable alternative for Traditional moxibustion; in clinical practice. In the future, based on the results of this exploratory study, we hope to design and carry out a multicenter, large-sample, randomized controlled clinical trial with a longer follow-up period to confrm the results and enhance the generalizability of the fndings. Abbreviations KOsteoarthritis;: Knee osteoarthritis; Osteoarthritis;: Osteoarthritis; Infrared laser moxibustion;: Infrared laser moxibustion; Traditional moxibustion;: Traditional moxibustion; Numeric rating scale;: Numerical rating scale; Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;: Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index; 36-Item Short Form Survey Instrument;: 36-Item short for health survey; 6-Min walking test;: 6-Min walking test; Intention-to-treat;: Intention-to-treat; Traditional Chinese medicine;: Traditional Chinese medicine; Case report form;: Case report form; Per-protocol;: Per-protocol; Last observation carried forward;: Last observation carried forward; Confidence interval;s: Confdence intervals; Computed radiography;P: C-reactive protein;