Stress fracture is a failure of bony architecture to withstand repetitive, subthreshold stress, leading to partial or complete fracture that is not associated with any defnite episode of energy trauma. It is further classifed into insufciency fractures and fatigue fractures, based on the characteristics of bony architecture . While fatigue fracture occurs in normal bone subjected to abnormal high stresses over time, insufciency fracture occurs with normal stress in already compromised bone due to certain conditions such as osteoporosis, osteomalacia, Paget’s disease, hyperparathyroidism, rheumatoid arthritis, and metabolic bone disease . Stress fracture elsewhere in the body are usually treated by rest, casting, and sometime surgery with internal fxation . Stress fracture of proximal tibia in the setting of end-stage severe arthritis of the knee, occur secondary to severe malalignment in the coronal plane, leading to a concentration of stresses on the medial/lateral side of proximal tibia in varus/valgus knee . Te stress concentration leads to partial or complete fracture of the bone at point of fatigue. Tis scenario presents a complex clinical condition to treat because of poor bone quality, elderly patient population, obesity, preexisting rheumatoid arthritis or steroid treatment, abnormal metabolic profle, and limited available evidence regarding the efectiveness of available treatment options. Historic treatment options include nonoperative treatment in a cast, while operative treatment includes two stage surgery with internal fxation with or without osteotomy in the frst stage and total knee arthroplasty (Total knee arthroplasty;) in the second stage, simultaneous total knee arthroplasty and internal fxation in one sitting, and simultaneous total knee arthroplasty with fracture fxation using tibial stem extensions . We describe an observational study of a series of 17 cases with end-stage knee arthritis associated with stress fractures of the proximal third of tibia treated with simultaneous total knee arthroplasty using long, futed stemmed tibial components to ensure rotational stability distal to the fracture site. Study population and data collection Patients with end-stage degenerative knee arthritis associated with stress fracture of the proximal third of the tibia treated at our institute from February 2015 to December 2020 were analyzed. All patients had varus deformity and only extraarticular stress fracture of the tibia, except one case that had both extraarticular and intraarticular fractures of medial tibial condyle (Figs. 1, 2, 3). Tis patient had severe varus deformity (> 20°) in the preoperative period, which could be corrected to 6.8° hip–knee– ankle (HKA) angle in postoperative radiograph (Fig. 4). Despite having varus malalignment, this patient had an uneventful recovery, including fracture union, and remained asymptomatic with decent function  at 5 years of follow-up. All cases were treated by single-stage Total knee arthroplasty; using a tibial component with futed tibial extension rod. Te patients were evaluated preoperatively for knee range of motion (Range of motion;), fxed deformities, knee society score (Knee Society Score;), knee function score (KFS), mechanical tibio–femoral angle calculated on long leg standing radiographs, standard antero–posterior (AP), lateral, and skyline radiographs. While most of the stress fractures were diagnosed on plain X-rays, two patients needed nuclear bone scans to confrm the diagnosis (Figs. 5, 6). X-ray fndings of defnite fracture line, periosteal or endosteal bone formation, or linear sclerosis were taken as an evidence of stress fracture. Preoperative metabolic workup in the form of serum calcium, phosphorus, vitamin D, alkaline phosphatase (ALP), and parathyroid hormone (Prothrombin time;H) levels were done. All patients underwent cemented total knee arthroplasty under spinal anesthesia using posterior cruciate sacrifcing (PS) implants (Press Fit Condylar Sigma, DePuy Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, USA) with modular futed tibial extension rods. An infatable tourniquet was used in all cases from skin incision to closure, set at 100 mm Hg above the systolic blood pressure of the patient. A standard medial parapatellar arthrotomy approach was used in all cases. After preparing the femoral side with standard measured resection technique, a tibial cut was done using an extramedullary jig and sequential intramedullary reaming done after correction of any deformity at the fracture site. A futed extension rod acting as an internal splint provided excellent intraoperative stability at the fracture site, achieving adequate press ft in the distal tibial fragment ensuring rotational stability. Te length of the rod was dictated by the location of the fracture as it was supposed to bypass the fracture site by at least two cortical diameters distally. Only the tibial base plate was cemented, taking care to prevent leakage of cement at the fracture site. Drains were not used. In the postoperative period, all patients were encouraged to walk at full weight-bearing using a walker frame, starting from the frst postoperative day. Knee range of motion (Range of motion;) and dynamic quadriceps and hamstring exercises were started from the frst postoperative day and escalated depending on the pain tolerance of the patient. Te walker frame was removed after 3 weeks, and the patients were asked to switch to elbow crutches or sticks for the next 3 weeks, which they were also weaned of ultimately. Patients were followed-up with clinical and radiological assessments at 8, 10, and 12 weeks, 6 months, and annually thereafter. Radiological union (at least three cortices with bridging callus) with absence of pain and tenderness at fracture site was defned as union of fracture. Functional outcome assessment was done by recording data on postoperative knee range of motion, Knee Society score, knee functional score, and radiological evaluation using standard AP and lateral projections of the knee. Te postoperative tibial alignment was also evaluated using the anatomical axis of the tibia to assess the adequacy of fracture reduction. Te statistical analysis was done using SPSS for windows version 23. Descriptive data were presented as mean for continuous variables. To fnd out signifcant diferences between two dependent variables, a paired t-test was used to compare the means, e.g., for Knee Society score and knee function score. A two-sided p value<0.05 taken as statistically signifcant. Demographic data showed the mean age to be 65.35±4.88 (range 58–72) years (Table 1). Out of 17 patients, 13 were females and only 4 were males. Te preoperative mean body mass index (Body mass index;) was 32.4±2.48 (range 28–37) kg/m2 . Te preoperative mean varus deformity, measured as the hip–knee–ankle (HKA) angle was 21.20±8.4° (range 10–35°) of varus, while the mean HKA angle in postoperative patients was 1.22±1.6° of varus alignment. Most patients had postoperative alignment of HKA angle<3°, except the one case depicted in Figs. 3, 4, which had 6.8° varus and, as described earlier, had good outcome. Te postoperative tibial anatomical alignment was also evaluated to assess the fracture reduction. Since most of our patients had chronic tibia stress fractures that remained undisplaced due to undisturbed periosteum and intact fbula, gross displacement was not seen preoperatively. In the postoperative period, the coronal alignment was checked using the anatomical tibia axis, which remained within 5° varus/valgus (except the one case illustrated in Fig. 3). Te case illustrated in Fig. 3 had gross varus displacement (which was correctable to neutral) and mobility in coronal and sagittal planes. However, during intraoperative evaluation while trial component testing, we felt that the overall alignment was around 3° of varus, hence, we decided against fbular osteotomy. Te preoperative mean fxed fexion deformity was 8.53±3.43° (range 5–15°), which improved to 0.29° (only one patient had 5° of fxed fexion deformity while the other patients had complete extension). Te mean preoperative fexion angle was 79.41±13.90° (range 60–100°), improved to 125.29±8.74° (range 110–140°) on postoperative assessment (Table 2). Most of the patients had normal metabolic profle except hypovitaminosis D detected in 12 patients (four patients had mild defciency with levels in range of 15–20 ng/mL and eight patients had severe defciency with levels less than 5 ng/ mL). Fifteen patients had elevated serum ALP levels (all>500 IU/L) and two patients had normal levels (reference 40–150 IU/L). Mean follow-up duration was 22.7±11.68 months (range 12–60 months) and mean time to fracture healing was 10.23±2.81 weeks (range 8–20 weeks). Te Knee Society score improved from a mean preoperative score of 18.94±5.55 (range 8–28) to 89.41±7.5 (range 74–102, p <0.001). Similarly, the knee function score improved signifcantly from a mean preoperative score of 15.5±4.48 (range 8–26) to 85±6.09 (range 72–94, p <0.001). All fractures got united uneventfully, and no patient had any complication in terms of wound healing, nonunion, joint instability, or patellar complications. Stress fracture associated with end-stage knee arthritis is relatively uncommon and underreported, especially in developing countries due to ignorance of pain, fnancial constraints, and misplaced fear of surgical procedures, hence patients tend to report later in the disease process when they become bedridden or wheelchair bound . Te purpose of this study was to review the clinical and radiological outcomes following the use of futed, long uncemented tibial stem extenders with knee arthroplasty to alleviate patient symptoms, correct the deformity, and provide a stable painless mobile knee joint with a single surgical procedure. We conclude the results in terms of knee function, fracture union, and postoperative alignment of the limb with short-term survival data of the prosthesis. Te coronal plane deformity shifts the mechanical axis of the lower limb, leading to a concentration of stresses and subsequent failure of either of cortices of the tibia. Diagnosis was made with a typical history of shin pain, along with knee pain that is usually insidious onset, along with tenderness, joint crepitus, and typical deformity . Confrmation of the diagnosis is usually done on routine radiographs, but there are chances that the fracture line can be missed when it is distal to the meta-diaphyseal junction of the tibia, and it is recommended to have an index of clinical suspicion in those elderly patients who remain wheelchair bound and refuse to walk on outpatient clinical examination. Rarely, the very faint fracture line on routine radiographs can be missed, and in those cases, a nuclear bone scan is mandatory to confrm the diagnosis. Routine biochemical tests should be performed to rule out metabolic disease. In our series, all patients had normal metabolic profle except elevated serum ALP (in 15 patients) and hypovitaminosis D (in 12 patients), which were treated with oral supplements of cholecalciferol. Tibial stress fractures coexisting with knee arthritis were frst described frst by Wheeldon in 1961 . Various subsequent reports were limited to a few cases only, and advocated conservative treatment as the modality of choice, in the form of rest, limited activities, and plaster application . Other options proposed were internal fxation with or without osteotomy in the frst stage and Total knee arthroplasty; in the second stage. Te two-stage technique produced fair results but has been widely criticized due to unavoidable complications of immobilization such as knee stifness and muscles wasting . Te goals of surgical treatment in such scenarios should be as follows: 1. Restoration of normal mechanical alignment of lower limb 2. Achieving fracture union by providing stable and internal fxation 3. Replacement of arthritic joint with prosthetic joint providing pain relief and commencement of mobilization Restoration of mechanical axis of the knee, along with reduction and fxation of tibial stress fractures, poses an unfamiliar challenge. Due to a concentration of stress, the medial side (in varus deformity) or lateral side (in valgus deformity) acts as the compression side and the opposite cortex as the tension side. By restoring mechanical alignment of the lower limb (with Total knee arthroplasty;), the deforming forces are neutralized and converted to a vertical compression force across the fracture site by bridging the fracture and providing internal splinting with an extension stem. Treating only the fracture, without correction of alignment, may lead to malunion, nonunion, persistent knee pain, and recurrence of the stress fracture . Simultaneous Total knee arthroplasty; with futed, press ft, long tibial extension rods has been previously advocated in few case series with good to excellent clinical outcomes . Ng and colleagues described two such cases of knee Osteoarthritis; with proximal third tibial diaphysis stress fractures, which were initially treated conservatively. Subsequently, after failure of conservative treatment and fracture nonunion, knee arthroplasty with tibial stem extensions proved to be satisfactory treatment in their case studies . Te study by Mullaji and colleagues was the largest previous series published, including 34 patients . Te authors proposed a classifcation based on the site of stress fracture (intraarticular versus extraarticular) or chronicity of fracture (impending, acute, malunited, or ununited). Te authors reported union in all cases without any complications using tibial stem extenders, except one case in which they observed cortical perforation by extension rod. However, the follow-up remained uneventful with good recovery. Based on these reviews and our observations, we can conclude that all extraarticular tibial stress fractures can be addressed with tibial stem extension of adequate ft and length. While with intraarticular rim fractures, the smaller plateau fragments can be excised safely (advantageous in cases of severe varus deformity), the larger fragments need protection with stem extenders or reconstruction of the resultant defect with cement, wedges, or augments . Similarly, Savant et al. also reported satisfactory clinical outcomes in a series of four cases treated with total knee arthroplasty using a long tibial extension rod . Dhillon et al. described a series of eight cases of osteoarthritis knee with extraarticular tibial stress fractures treated with stem extenders (in six patients), while the other two patients received an additional unicortical plate for rotational stability . However, the author concluded that the chances of wound breakdown and infection increases signifcantly with the use of such plates. Moreover, the plate, by its load-sharing efect, prevents compressive forces at the fracture site, leading to a delay in union and hence its use should be avoided in such cases. Te notion of deleterious efects of load sharing by the plate was also supported by Rashid et al. in their series. Te authors summarized that all extraarticular stress fractures should be managed with press ft stem extenders after intramedullary reaming and without opening the fracture site . In this study, a long, futed titanium tibial stem extension was used, which ensured press ft at the distal fragment of the tibial diaphysis and provided enough rotational stability to allow immediate postoperative mobilization. Other studies have also reported excellent outcomes from using tibial stem extenders in knee osteoarthritis complicated with stress fracture of the tibia, without the need for additional internal fxation device . In most cases of ununited chronic stress fractures of the tibia, the fracture remains stable and postoperative malalignment is not seen; however, in cases of mobile, displaced fractures, there is a tendency to develop varus deformity due to intact fbula (Fig. 3, Fig. 4). Terefore, we believe that addition of corrective tibial osteotomy, with or without fbular osteotomy should be reserved for the correction of residual varus to achieve neutral coronal tibial alignment in case of malunion or stif fbrous union, as suggested in a few reports . Although the single stage surgical option seems to be very efective and safe, the surgeon must be careful while reaming for the stem insertion because of the possibility of cortical breach and malalignment due to undercorrected deformity at the fracture site, poor bone stock, and the potential for periprosthetic fractures. We did not encounter any such adverse event in our series, but it has been reported previously in literature . Careful and good surgical planning remains vital to understand the bony morphology and anticipation of possible intraoperative complications. Te strength of our study is the relatively long follow-up period, while the weakness are the small number of cases and retrospective nature of the study. We conclude that simultaneous Total knee arthroplasty; using long, futed tibial extension rods is an efective and safe surgical option for patients with end-stage osteoarthritis associated with proximal tibial stress fractures. Te advantages are that this is a single stage procedure without the need for additional incisions or internal fxation devices, there are no wound healing complications, and postoperative stability is immediate, leading to fully fedged mobilization of patients in the early postoperative period, thus minimizing fracture-related morbidity and complications.