Osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) is the most common degenerative joint disorder in Germany and worldwide . According to the GEDA 2014/2015-EH Interview Survey of the Robert Koch Institute, the 12-month prevalence of Osteoarthritis; in adults in Germany is assessed at 17.9% . It is estimated that more than half of those afected sufer from knee Osteoarthritis; . Older age, female sex and biomechanical stress induced by overuse or malalignment as well as previous injuries or overweight are potential risk factors for Osteoarthritis; . Disease progression is frequently associated with increasing pain and growing limitations in physical functioning and health-related quality of life. Due to its progressive degenerative character, interventions primarily aim for a reduction in disease symptoms and improvements in physical functioning. Tey further intend to foster disease self-management and patient education. Medical guidelines worldwide recommend physical exercises and patient education as nonpharmacological core treatments for patients with knee Osteoarthritis; . However, there is an insufcient provision and utilization of these frst-line treatments in current health care. A recent meta-analysis of 15 studies evaluating the quality of Osteoarthritis; care in the community concluded that less than 40% of eligible Osteoarthritis; patients received recommendations to exercise . Furthermore, only 35% of the German people with Osteoarthritis; reported that they engage in strength training at least twice a week . Data from a German health insurance company show that more than 60% of the insurance holders aged 60 years and above and diagnosed with Osteoarthritis; received medication compared with only 41% receiving a prescription for physiotherapy . Te latter does not necessarily include exercise instructions . From a mechanical perspective, strengthening exercises aim to stabilize the afected joint and decrease abnormal joint loads by improving muscle strength and neuromuscular control . To date, many studies on exercise therapy in knee Osteoarthritis; have shown increased strength in the short and mid-term . In this regard, adherence to exercise seems to be crucial, as exercise interventions are categorized as lifestyle interventions. Initial instructions are given, after which the exercises should be continued in a self-dependent manner . An ongoing need for the development of highly stimulating exercise programs designed for long-term adherence can therefore be postulated . In this regard, home-based exercise programs seem to be of particular relevance, as they can be conducted independently . Digital health applications have great potential to support patients in performing exercises correctly and safely. Te outstanding advantages of digital health applications are related to their extensive availability, allowing users to be instructed in exercises independent of time and location. Tey further appeal to a wide range of possible users  and have the possibility of closer monitoring, such as an objective method of measuring adherence to exercise by use of additional motion sensors . In a randomized controlled trial, Bennell and colleagues  compared home exercise prescribed by therapists’ usual methods with home exercise prescribed using a web-based exercise programming system for people with musculoskeletal conditions. Conclusively, web-based home exercise resulted in improved adherence and self-confdence in the ability to perform exercises independently. Te digital transformation in health care is advancing rapidly. One example of this ongoing process is the Digital Care Law in Germany, which came into force in 2019 . Tis law aims for better care using digitalization and innovation. Among others, it allows patients to gain access to specifc health apps that are listed in a register for disease-specifc digital health applications (Digital health application – Digitale Gesundheitsanwendung). Costs for Digital health application – Digitale Gesundheitsanwendungs are reimbursed from the statutory health insurance companies. However, evidence of a positive care efect, such as patient beneft, is a prerequisite for the fnal inclusion of a Digital health application – Digitale Gesundheitsanwendung into the reimbursable Digital health application – Digitale Gesundheitsanwendung register . To create incentives using digital interventions, such or similar reimbursement models are needed from a clinician’s perspective . Tis randomized controlled trial will investigate the patient benefts associated with the preliminary listed Digital health application – Digitale Gesundheitsanwendung re.fex that is used to instruct and guide exercises for patients with knee Osteoarthritis;. Te main objective of this study is to investigate the efectiveness of a 12-week sensor-assisted and app-supported exercise intervention in addition to usual care (intervention group) in comparison to a control group with usual care only (control group). Te two primary endpoints are the comparison of baseline-adjusted scores between the intervention and control group regarding osteoarthritis-specifc pain (subscale Pain of the Knee Osteoarthritis Outcome Score, Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score;) and physical function (subscale Function in dailyliving (Function in daily living) of the Knee Osteoarthritis Outcome Score, Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score;) directly after the 12-week intervention phase. Other study endpoints include further self-reported health outcomes, a performance measurement, app logfles and safety aspects (Table 2). Te study is designed as a monocentric pragmatic twoarmed randomized controlled superiority trial and will be conducted in an academic hospital with an outpatient clinic for Sports Medicine located in Tübingen, Germany. Subjects are randomly allocated to the intervention group and control group in a 1:1 ratio with n=100 in each group. Pre- and postmeasurements will take place at baseline (t0) and after 12 weeks (Timepoint 1, collection point after 12-week study phase). Te study was prospectively registered in the German Clinical Trial Register (German clinical trials register - Deutsches Register Klinischer Studien00030932) on 20/01/2023 and will be reported following the Standard Protocol Items: Recommendations for Interventional Trials (Standard Protocol Items: Recommendations for Interventional Trials;) checklist  (Supplement 1). Eligible patients are those of any sex≥18 years sufering from knee Osteoarthritis; (International Classifcation of Disease, International Classifcation of Disease codes M17.0–17.5 and 17.9). Te knee must be the primary location of Osteoarthritis; symptoms. Knee Osteoarthritis; is frst diagnosed via self-reported previous Osteoarthritis; diagnosis by a physician according to the wording of the GEDA questionnaire . Patients are further asked to rate their Osteoarthritis; severity via the Subscale Pain of the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; . Only patients with at least moderate self-reported symptoms at the time of screening are eligible for the study (Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; pain≤60 points, where 100 points indicate no complaints at all). To address that criterion, the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; pain subscale will be administered by phone and based on possible symptoms that typically occurred during the last week. Osteoarthritis; diagnosis is verifed in the context of the physical examination at t0 by a physician (orthopaedist). If available, the diagnosis is confrmed using X-ray or Magnetic resonance imaging; images provided by the patient. Further inclusion and exclusion criteria are outlined in Table 1. Participants in the control group will not receive any study intervention or instruction for any change to their previous health care utilization. Tey are allowed to make use of usual health care provided by their treating physician, if applicable. Usual care is defned as any kind of prescribed pharmacological or physical intervention a patient with knee Osteoarthritis; usually receives when consulting a medical doctor because of knee Osteoarthritis;. Tese may include physical therapies such as regular physiotherapy, manual therapy, electrotherapy, orthotic devices and medical prescriptions for pharmacological agents such as nonsteroidal anti-infammatory drugs (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug;s) . Tese refect the relevant treatment options according to the current national guidelines in Germany . Te exercise intervention comprises a 12-week appguided home training program that was specifcally designed for patients with knee osteoarthritis. Exercises are guided by use of the training app and two accelerometers (re.fex, © 2019, KINETO TECH REHyaluronic acid;B SRL) that are attached proximally and distally to the afected knee joint (Fig. 1). Te primary focus of the intervention is to strengthen knee extensors, knee fexors and hip abductors. Further exercises aim for joint mobilization, muscle fexibility and balance training. Te frst two weeks focuses on familiarization with diferent kinds of exercises and exercise loads. In this regard, patients should be enabled to adapt exercise intensity self-determinately according to perceived strain and pain. Terefore, patients can choose between two diferent intensity grades. Tey further have to comment about their strain and pain levels after each set of exercises (see outcome measures). Te following four weeks are designed to increase strength endurance, enhance the range of motion of the lower extremities and improve balance ability. In this phase, strengthening exercises should be performed with 2 sets of 25 repetitions (Fig. 2). Te last six weeks of the intervention mainly focus on muscle hypertrophy with higher intensities and lower repetition numbers. Strength training should be performed with 3 sets of 15 repetitions in this phase. Moreover, balance and range of motion should be further improved (Fig. 2). From week 5 onwards, the training program can partly be modifed by the users by choosing their preferred exercises for some of the strength, mobility, fexibility or balance exercises out of the exercise pool that they became familiar with during previous sessions. Alternative exercises relate to the same musculature and task, yet they may difer regarding the exercise position or an open versus closed kinetic chain. Te use of the app and sensors will be introduced in the context of the baseline examination on site by the pretrained study staf, and patients will further receive a manual for using the software and hardware. Te app acts as a virtual training partner, providing exercise descriptions and videos (Fig. 1), setting the number of repetitions and sets, predefning joint angles and the related range of motion for the exercises and defning the movement velocity of the exercises. Each of the 12 weeks foresees 3 exercise sessions with a respective duration of 25–30 min each, which can be performed independently of location and time. Different types and variations of exercise (i.e., the use of long or short lever arms or diferent starting positions: supine, seated, standing) as well as elastic exercise bands are used to allow progression of training loads. All onesided exercises are conducted alternately with each leg to avoid muscular imbalances. Furthermore, subjects will be instructed prior to the start of the intervention that strength exercises are efective when the fnal two to three repetitions are perceived as strenuous to very strenuous  on the Rating of perceived exertion (rating of perceived exertion) scale 0–10. If at the end of the exercise it is realized that the exercise was too easy or too difcult, the exercise intensity can be adjusted the next time the exercise is performed by choosing a more difcult or easier variation of the exercise. Te app further reminds the user to conduct upcoming training sessions via push notifcations. All training sessions, including the number of repetitions actually performed compared to the given number of repetitions of an exercise, are tracked by the two accelerometers and thus can help to evaluate training adherence in the future. Troughout the intervention phase, users can contact the provider via the app messenger. Te provider is responsible for clarifcation of technical issues. Participants are instructed to interrupt the training program in case of any suspicious symptoms, fatigue or excessive pain during the exercise intervention with the re.fex system. Tey are asked to inform the study personnel about any adverse event to allow judgement on how to proceed. Tis decision is up to the study physician as well as the study personnel (sports scientist/physiotherapist) and will refer to the options of modifcation of the training regime or its temporary or complete discontinuation. In correspondence to the control group, participants of the intervention group are allowed to make use of usual health care provided by their treating physician, if applicable. Te following Table 2 gives an overview of all outcome measures, their study instruments with references and their time points of assessment. Details on each measure are provided in the subsequent sections. Patientreported outcome measures (Patient-reported outcome measures) will be assessed using an online questionnaire (Questback GmbH, Köln, Germany) during the examinations at the study site (t0, Timepoint 1, collection point after 12-week study phase) and at home (only applicable for concomitant care at 4 and 8 weeks). Te physical performance measure will be assessed on-site at t0 and Timepoint 1, collection point after 12-week study phase. Sociodemographic data, clinical status (e.g., relevant previous injuries or surgeries, comorbid conditions) , outcome expectations , previous experiences with strengthening exercises and physical activity as well as technical afnity  and fear of movement  are assessed in addition to the primary and secondary outcomes. Te participants will receive an e-mail prior to the data collection, reminding them of the upcoming data collection. All used survey instruments are license-free or, in the case of the Veterans Rheumatoid Arthritis;ND 12-Item Health Survey (Veterans Rand 12: 12-item questionnaire assessing Health related quality of life), permission was obtained from the authors. Te selection of outcome measures aligns with the Outcome Measures in Rheumatology-Osteoarthritis Research Society International (Outcome Measures in Rheumatology-Osteoarthritis;RSI) core domain set for trials of people with hip and knee osteoarthritis . Te selection also aligns with the Consensus of the International Consortium for Health Outcomes Measurement Hip and Knee Osteoarthritis Working Group (International Consortium for Health Outcomes Measurement) on Standard Outcome Measures for hip and knee Osteoarthritis; released in 2016 . Te mandatory set of outcome measures is supplemented by further relevant outcome measures in the context of exercise therapy and m-Health. The Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; is a widely accepted and comprehensive outcome measure for several domains, including pain and physical function. It was developed as a nonproprietary comprehensive extension to the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;) and has been proven to be valid, reliable, and responsive to Osteoarthritis; outcomes . The test–retest reliability of the German version was in the range of rs=0.65–0.78, which corresponds to a sufficiently high reliability for all subscales. The validity was determined by comparing the subscales with the patient’s self-assessment of health status and the results of the SF-12 (quality of life questionnaire). A sufficiently high convergence validity was shown . The Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score;)  was developed to assess the patient’s opinion about their knee and associated problems. The Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; evaluates both short-term and long-term consequences of knee injury and consequences of primary Osteoarthritis;. It contains 42 items in five separately scored subscales: Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; Pain, Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; Symptoms, Function in daily living (Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; Function in daily living), Function in Sport and Recreation (Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; Sport and recreation t0 Timepoint 0, collection point at baseline), and knee-related Quality of Life (Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; Quality of life). All scores will be included; however, the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; Pain score and the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; Function in daily living score are the primary outcomes of the study Patient‑reported outcome measures (Patient-reported outcome measures) (1)Further Osteoarthritis;-specifc complaints Further subscales from the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score;, such as the subscales Symptoms, Function in Sport and Recreation (Sport and recreation t0 Timepoint 0, collection point at baseline) and knee-related Quality of Life (Quality of life), will be analysed to consider a wide range of Osteoarthritis;-specifc complaints. (2)Patient global assessment Te patient’s global assessment of knee osteoarthritis will be used as a one-item scale “Considering all the ways your osteoarthritis in your knee afects you, how are you doing today?” using a 5-point Likert scale (1-very good: asymptomatic and no limitation of normal activities; 2-good: mild symptoms and no limitation of normal activities; 3-fair: moderate symptoms and limitation of some normal activities; 4-poor: severe symptoms and inability to carry out most normal activities; 5-very poor: very severe symptoms that are intolerable and inability to carry out all normal activities). Te description for each answer category refers to Schnitzer and colleagues and will be translated into the German language . (3)Health-related quality of life Te Veterans Rheumatoid Arthritis;ND 12-Item Health Survey (Veterans Rand 12: 12-item questionnaire assessing Health related quality of life)  is a generic questionnaire to assess the patient’s opinion about their health-related quality of life. Te Veterans Rand 12: 12-item questionnaire assessing Health related quality of life allows the calculation of a mental as well as a physical component scale and includes a 1-item scale for general health. Te following transition questions will be used to assess the subjective change in health status at Timepoint 1, collection point after 12-week study phase: “Please imagine how your health status was 3 months ago. How do you feel about your osteoarthritis in the index knee joint today compared to 3 months ago? Please mark the answers that are applicable: (1) in general; (2) in the area of pain; (3) in the area of walking.” Te questions are each answered with a 5-point Likert scale with the response options “much better”, “somewhat better”, “unchanged”, “somewhat worse” and “much worse”. Te questions and answers refer to Angst and colleagues and were translated into German by the author . Objective measures Te 30-s chair stand test  aims to test leg strength as well as leg strength endurance. Te participant is seated in the middle of a chair with the hands and arms crossed in front of the upper body. Feet are completely positioned on the foor, and the back is straight. Out of this initial position, the participant is asked to stand up until an upright position and to sit again as often as possible within a 30-s time window. Te results can be related to sex- and age-matched norm values. Concomitant care Utilization of previous care and treatment will be assessed at t0 with a retrospective time window of 12 months. Utilization of concomitant care (yes Versus; WOMAC: Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index no entry) during the study period will be assessed 4 and 8 weeks after baseline and at Timepoint 1, collection point after 12-week study phase (twelve weeks after baseline) with a retrospective time window of 4 weeks. Assessments will include the type of care utilization (i.e., physical therapist, general practitioner, dietician, etc.) and the type of received treatment referring to diferent kinds of information/advice, self-managed care, nonsurgical care, clinical care and surgery . Within the categories self-managed care/clinical care, medication intake (regularly, sporadic, no), the type of medication taken, and its dose and frequency of intake will explicitly be asked for. Perceived human‑digital interaction, patient satisfac‑ tion Te perceived usability of the digital health application will be assessed with the m-Health Application Usability Questionnaire (M-Health App Usability Questionnaire)  in addition to 1 item from Harder et al.  (Item B1). Te M-Health App Usability Questionnaire is not available in a validated German language version and is used in a self-translated version. Te assessment of this questionnaire takes place after the exercise intervention period. Te modifed version of the 8-item scale Patient satisfaction questionnaire will be used to assess patient satisfaction with the received care . Te modifcations relate to changes according to the kind of care (stand-alone app here versus hospital setting in the original version). Patient perspective on the satisfaction with the results of their treatment in general will be asked with the one-item question “How satisfed are you with the results of your treatment?” using a 5-point Likert scale (very satisfed; satisfed; neither satisfed nor dissatisfed; unsatisfed; very unsatisfed) . Logfles Logfles of the re.fex digital application for the evaluation of adherence to exercise, rating of perceived exertion during exercising and perceived pain before, during and after exercising will be read out for each training session separately. (1)Adherence to exercise Overall adherence will be quantifed using the percentage of conducted exercise sessions relative to the overall number of prescribed exercise sessions, irrespective of compliance with the prescribed exercise dosage. In addition, logfles of the app provide detailed information on the number of valid repetitions and sets of each exercise within a given training session as well as overall data for each training session during the 12-week intervention phase for the sensor-equipped leg. Training adherence is therefore further quantifed by calculating the percentage of all valid repetitions conducted with the afected leg during the training related to the number of requested repetitions. Te overall exercise repetition adherence is the mean value of the adherence of all training sessions of the 12-week program considering the calculation procedure as mentioned before. Further data include the time in action as well as the total training time (including calibration, instruction, training of the other leg, etc.). (2)Rating of perceived exertion (Rating of perceived exertion) during exercising Participants are asked to rate their exertion using the entry feld of the app after each set of exercises as well as overall exertion at the end of the training session. Rating of perceived exertion is measured using a numerical rating scale (Numeric rating scale;) with 0 indicating no exertion at all and 10 indicating the maximal conceivable exertion. Values are read out for each set of an exercise separately. Average values are calculated. (3)Perceived pain before, during and after exercising Pain ratings are requested before and after each training as well as after each exercise set. Values are read out for each exercise separately. Patients are asked to rate their pain using the entry feld of the app. Perceived pain is measured using the Faces Pain Scale (Faces Pain Scale) . Face emojis are scored 0 (no pain), 2 (little pain), 4 (moderate pain), 6 (much pain), 8 (very much pain) or 10 (highest imaginable pain). In case of an entry with a pain index of more than 8, the user gets a recommendation to pause training and to contact the physician in charge. Te In-app pain report is not aimed at replacing the comprehensive Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score;. Rather, it is intended to be used to monitor pain levels throughout the course of the exercise intervention. Safety aspects Exercise-related pain and adverse events will be assessed retrospectively at Timepoint 1, collection point after 12-week study phase, including frequency, duration, intensity, and potential causes. Exercise-related pain will only be assessed in participants in the intervention group, and adverse events (Adverse events) will be assessed in both study arms. Participants are informed at t0 to contact the study personal in case of Adverse events during the study period. Minor Adverse events must be reported to the responsible study personnel within one week (postal letter, email, telephone, in-app support chat). Adverse events causing the need for referral to a physician or hospital have to be reported to the responsible study personnel immediately. Judgement on whether the Adverse event is related to the intervention is carried out by an orthopaedist or physician for internal medicine of the Dept. of Sports Medicine. In case of an unclear connection between an Adverse event and the intervention or in case of a serious Adverse event, representatives of the study sponsor Sporlastic and other study independent physicians of the University Hospital will report the situation to a safety board. Tis safety board will then decide on the continuation or premature termination of the trial for safety reasons. The first patient was recruited in January 2023. Continued inclusion of patients is planned until the end of April 2023. Assessments at baseline (t0) and immediately after the 12-week intervention/control phase (Timepoint 1, collection point after 12-week study phase) will be conducted on-site at the University Hospital, Tübingen, Germany, and data will be collected as outlined in Fig. 3 and Table 2. Assessors for the performance outcome measure are thoroughly instructed by the study personnel who are responsible for the use of the measurement instrument as well as for all other assessments, including the randomization process prior to the start of the study. Prior to the independent execution of the tests, all assessors performed up to three supervised assessments until these were carried out correctly. Additionally, an online questionnaire asking for concomitant care will be sent at weeks 4 and 8. All participants are expected to have completed the study by the end of July 2023. A detailed timeline for the individual patients can be seen in the study fow chart in Fig. 3. Potential study participants will be recruited via newspaper, newsletter for employees of the University Hospital and the University and people who were interested in participating in a previous study (German clinical trials register - Deutsches Register Klinischer Studien00023269) but could not be included because of bicondylar symptoms (eligibility criteria have been changed for this trial). Recruiting will take place in a two-step procedure. Te frst contact will be held by telephone or email. Te purpose of this contact is to inform the interested person about the content and aims of the study as well as its timeline. Te frst screening for eligibility by querying the inclusion and exclusion criteria is also part of this contact. In this regard, the Physical Activity Readiness-Questionnaire Physical Activity Readiness Questionnaire is used to screen for exercise suitability. If one or more questions related to restrictions other than musculoskeletal are answered with “yes”, the interested person must provide a confrmation for cardiopulmonal exercise suitability from his personal doctor in case of further interest in study participation. Tis step takes place before study inclusion and must be done on the patient’s initiative. In the context of the second step, the eligible patient is invited to a face-to-face meeting. Tis meeting includes comprehensive oral and written study information and the option for the patient to ask and respond to open study-related questions. After providing written consent, the patient is included on a provisional basis and referred to the study physician (orthopaedist) for medical examination (anamnesis and physical examination). Te patient is fnally included in case of alignment to inclusion criteria and absence of exclusion criteria. Otherwise, the subject is defnitely excluded before randomization takes place. Te examination is followed by the outcome assessments. Finally, patients will be randomized to the intervention or control group. Tis frst baseline examination will take approximately two hours. Te frst examination (t0) is followed by the 12-week intervention or control phase. Follow-up measures (Timepoint 1, collection point after 12-week study phase) will be conducted directly after the 12-week intervention or control phase. Te complete study duration for each participant will be approximately 14 weeks, including two assessments as well as the 12-week intervention or control phase. Te two primary endpoints of the study are the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; subscales of pain and Function in daily living. Te results of a pilot study comparing the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; pain subscale and Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; Function in daily living subscale of 29 patients in the control group (usual care) with 15 patients in the intervention group (re.fex) using baseline adjusted analysis of covariance revealed efect sizes of 1.16 (Pain subscale) and 1.03 (Function in daily living subscale). A recent meta-analysis on exercise interventions in patients with knee Osteoarthritis; reported a standardized mean diference of 0.5 (95% Confidence interval; 0.37 to 0.63) for pain reduction immediately posttreatment in comparison to usual care or minimal treatment . Additionally, minimal clinically important diferences (Minimum clinically important diferences) were reported between 5.5 and 8.7 points on the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; pain subscale (score 0–100) for nonsurgical treatment strategies in patients with knee Osteoarthritis; . Tese correspond to standardized mean differences between 0.59 and 0.94. Based on the preceding, rather heterogeneous results with efect sizes between 0.5 and 1.2 from the results of the pilot study and fndings and recommendations of other sources, the planned study is powered to demonstrate a Minimum clinically important diference of 5 points (0–100) on the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; Pain Subscale between the intervention and control group with a standard deviation of 10. Tis leads to an efect size of 0.5 and to a sample size of evaluable participants of 2*78=156. For adjustment of baseline, aetiology, medication and laterality, 4 additional degrees of freedom are spent, and the sample size is increased to 160. Considering a drop-out rate of~20%, 200 patients will be recruited to achieve a power of 80% with a type 1 error of 0.025 (two-sided Bonferroni correction for two confrmatory outcomes) by baseline adjusted comparison of outcome values at Timepoint 1, collection point after 12-week study phase between study arms (analysis of covariance, Analysis of covariance). Before the study start, randomization lists will be created for each of the eight combinations of the strata aetiology (primary, secondary), medication (regularly/no or sporadic) and laterality of the disease (one-sided, two-sided) using computer-generated random numbers (0;1) with varying block lengths and 50 subjects per stratum combination. Te randomization list will be transferred to the data management system SecuTrial (Interactive Systems Berlin). Online randomization will be performed after confrmation that the respective subject fulfls all selection criteria, after baseline assessments take place and after entry of the stratifcation criteria. Randomization will be performed on site using the randomization tool SecuTrial and will be conducted in the order of patient appearance by the assessors. Participants will not be randomized in case of exclusion before completion of the examination and tests at t0. Te study intervention is obvious, and therefore, an adequate comparable placebo intervention is not possible. As such, this trial is nonblinded for participants. Blinding of health care providers is not applicable, as the intervention of interest is a stand-alone app without human interaction. Baseline assessments will take place before randomization, and data collectors for the performance test will be blinded to the group allocation of the participants for follow-up assessment. All other outcomes are self-reported, and blinding is not possible, as they include outcomes that are only assessed in the intervention group (e.g., logfles, patient satisfaction with the app); thus, group allocation is obvious. Te creation of the computer-generated randomization list using the software nQuery will be done by an employee of the Institute for Clinical Epidemiology and Applied Biometrics who is not involved in the conduction and assessment of the study. Statisticians will be blinded for the analyses of the primary endpoints and all other health outcome measures. For further analyses, statisticians will be unblinded, as treatment allocation is obvious (i.e., perceived humandigital interaction, logfles, etc.). Te two primary endpoints of the statistical analyses are the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; subscales pain and Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; Function in daily living. Tey will be analysed at Timepoint 1, collection point after 12-week study phase immediately after the termination of the intervention using a baseline adjusted analysis of covariance (Analysis of covariance) with the primary factor “study arm”. Te level of signifcance will be 0.025 (two-sided Bonferroni correction for two confrmatory outcomes). We hypothesize that the exercise intervention will be superior to the control. Additionally, the stratifcation factors aetiology (primary, secondary), medication (regularly/no or sporadic) and laterality of the disease (one-sided, two-sided) will be coded by binary variables. Te model equation is: Y: Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; (Pain resp. Function in daily living) at Timepoint 1, collection point after 12-week study phase, BL: baseline Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; (Pain resp. Function in daily living), Arm: study arm coded as 0 (control) and 1 (exercise intervention), ε random error (normally distributed, equal variance, independent). Reference categories “primary”, “no or sporadic medication”, and “one-sided disease”, H0: β2=0, H1: β2≠0 (two-sided test, scientifc hypothesis: superiority of exercise intervention, i.e., β2<0). Continuous secondary endpoints will be analysed using the same statistical methods (analysis of covariance (Analysis of covariance) if baseline values are available; otherwise, analysis of variance else). For the main results, two-sided 95% confdence limits will be given in addition to signifcance tests. Te success of randomization will be assessed using baseline comparisons between both study arms. Te primary analysis population will be the intent-to-treat population. Tis population includes all patients who contribute at least baseline values of the primary outcomes. Multiple imputation will be applied to subjects who drop out or do not contribute measurements of the primary outcome for other reasons. Five hundred imputation samples will be drawn. Baseline measurements will be included as predictors (c.f. defnition of intent-totreat population). Te “jump to reference” method will be used for the primary analysis, i.e., patients who drop out will be assigned to the control arm in the imputation model but not in the analysis model. Sensitivity analyses will be performed with “complete case analysis”, “baseline observation carried forward” (single imputation) and with inclusion of the correct study arm in the imputation model (multiple imputation). A per protocol analysis will be conducted with all participants of the intervention group complying with the study criteria and still using the app until the last two weeks of the intervention phase with an overall adherence rate of 80% of the scheduled sessions. Te same procedure will be performed for all other secondary health outcome measures for which baseline values are complete. Exploratory subgroup analyses will be performed for the stratifcation factors and patient age (18–40 years, 40–55 years, 55–65 years, older than 65 years). Additionally, in the case of frequent or diferential occurrence of concomitant care (medication, physical therapy – active treatment) between the study groups, an exploratory subgroup analysis will be performed. P values for interaction of study arm with stratifcation factors and patient age as well as p values of study arms within strata will be reported but should not be interpreted as confrmatory. An additional analysis is planned for subjective ratings of overall change (general, pain, function). Response scales will be frst dichotomized into improved (somewhat/much better) and not improved (unchanged or worse). Between-group comparisons will be expressed as relative risks of improvement . Exploratory, prognostic factors, including baseline pain, age, Body mass index;, sex, technical afnity and fear of movement, will be analysed using multiple regression models (linear regression) to identify potential responders to the training. Binary outcomes will be analysed using similar logistic regression models. Data from all participants with informed written consent will be pseudonymized. On-site data will be captured with paper and pencil case report forms (Case report form;s) and using an online questionnaire (Questback GmbH, Köln, Germany) for Patient-reported outcome measureS. Log-Data of app usage will be captured by the software and transferred to the study team (*.csv-fle). Paper and pencil Case report form;s will be double entered into an electronic data sheet (Excel). Doubly entry will be checked for errors. Te data bank will be closed after the last patient out and after all queries are processed. Study data are then exported via *.csv-File to the statistical programs in use. Tere is no external data monitoring committee for this study. M-health interventions such as the sensor-guided digitalbased exercise intervention re.fex can be used independently from time and location and allow most patients to gain access to this kind of exercise guidance. Re.fex was specifcally developed to support home training in patients with knee Osteoarthritis;. If efective, it can bridge part of the gap between recommendations for strengthening exercises in patients with knee Osteoarthritis; and the insufcient actual care situation. However, to be classifed as a digital health application reimbursed by German health insurance companies, the intervention must prove patient beneft. Tere are several ways to defne appropriate controls for digital therapeutic clinical trials, e.g., using a sham control intervention such as a low-functional digital health tool lacking the elements to be reasonably efective . Te selection of the control group in this trial agreed with the responsible authority (Federal Institute for Drugs and Medical Devices in Germany, BfArM). Te following limitations must be addressed for the outlined study. All participants are allowed to make use ofusual health care provided by their treating physician during the study period. Tis concerns the intervention and control group, and cannot be prohibited, as all persons with German health insurance have a right to receive physician-recommended usual care treatments. Exclusive participation in re.fex (intervention) or doing nothing (control) cannot be ensured. To address this issue, all concomitant care will be queried retrospectively for one year and every 4 weeks until the end of the study. Considering the intervention duration of 12 weeks, only short-term efects can be assessed. Long-term efects will not be determined. Tis randomized controlled trial is designed to provide conclusions on the efectiveness of re.fex for the population under study. Patient beneft is primarily related to Osteoarthritis;-specifc pain reduction and improvement of physical function. Superiority of re.fex versus control for pain and function is a prerequisite for the permanent listing of the app into the Digital health application – Digitale Gesundheitsanwendung register. In addition, this study will add important knowledge to the scientifc community on the short-term efectiveness of exercise-related digital health interventions on health outcomes in general, and it will further provide evidence on its usability, patient acceptance and safety. Regarding this, sensor-based technology allows objective measures of exercise performance and may therefore help to control and analyse exercise training at home. Abbreviations Function in daily living: Function in daily living Adverse event: Adverse event Analysis of covariance: Analysis of covariance Application: Applicationlication Case report form;: Case report form Digital health application – Digitale Gesundheitsanwendung: Digital health application – Digitale Gesundheitsanwendung German clinical trials register - Deutsches Register Klinischer Studien: German clinical trials register - Deutsches Register Klinischer Studien Expectation for Treatment Scale: Expectation for Treatment Scale Faces Pain Scale: Faces Pain Scale International Classifcation of Disease: International Classifcation of Disease International Consortium for Health Outcomes Measurement: International Consortium for Health Outcomes Measurement Institute for Clinical Epidemiology and Applied Biometrics: Institute for Clinical Epidemiology and Applicationlied Biometrics Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score;: Knee Osteoarthritis Outcome Score M-Health App Usability Questionnaire: M-Health Application Usability Questionnaire Minimum clinically important diference: Minimal clinically important diference Mobile health: Mobile health Numeric rating scale;: Numerical rating scale non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug;: Nonsteroidal anti-infammatory drugs Osteoarthritis;: Osteoarthritis Osteoarthritis;RSI: Osteoarthritis Research Society International Outcome Measures in Rheumatology: Outcome Measures in Rheumatology Physical Activity Readiness Questionnaire: Physical Activity Readiness Questionnaire Patient-reported outcome measure: Patient-reported outcome measure Quality of life: Quality of life Rating of perceived exertion: Rating of perceived exertion Sport and recreation t0 Timepoint 0, collection point at baseline: Sport and recreation t0 Timepoint 0, collection point at baseline Timepoint 1, collection point after 12-week study phase: Timepoint 1, collection point after 12-week study phase Questionnaire to assess technical afnity regarding electronic devices: Questionnaire to assess technical afnity regarding electronic devices Tampa Scale for Kinesiophobia, German Version: Tampa Scale for Kinesiophobia, German Version Veterans Rand 12: 12-item questionnaire assessing Health related quality of life: Veterans Rand 12: 12-item questionnaire assessing Health related quality of life Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;: Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index Patient satisfaction questionnaire: Patient satisfaction questionnaire