Osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) is a degenerative, chronic, and progressive joint disease with a multifactorial etiology and is most common in weight-bearing joints, such as knees . Currently, no treatment is available to stop Osteoarthritis; progression, and joint replacement surgery is the only solution for severe cases. Non-operative treatment options include intra-articular drug injections into afected joints, which increase local bioavailability and reduce systemic exposure, adverse events (Adverse event;s), and costs compared with traditional pharmacologic therapies . Intra-articular injections of corticosteroids having antiinfammatory properties , and of hyaluronic acid (Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range;), a viscosupplement with analgesic, anti-infammatory, and potential disease-modifying properties , have been widely used . However, conclusions regarding their clinical utility are inconsistent, repeated injections are needed, long-term efects remain unclear, and they may be associated with Adverse event;s . Recently, biological treatments targeting key biochemical pathways have been developed, such as autologous platelet-rich plasma (PRole-physical;) injections to enhance tissue regeneration . PRole-physical; injections were shown to potentially improve pain and function compared to Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; or placebo injections in patients with knee Osteoarthritis;, but their frequent use increased the risk of Adverse event;s, and PRole-physical; preparations vary considerably . Terefore, other minimally invasive therapeutic options are needed for the treatment of knee Osteoarthritis; . In this context, enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; (Bone Terapeutics S.A., Belgium), an enhanced protein solution derived from human plasma that contains clonidine and Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; obtained via bacterial fermentation, has been developed. Te local administration of enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; into the joint cavity of patients with osteoarthritis is intended (i) to relieve local pain and discomfort associated with intra-articular injections through the short-term analgesic properties of clonidine , and (ii) to restore the joint homeostasis thanks to the interaction between human plasma and Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range;. Once injected in the knee joint, human plasma induces jellifcation through the coagulation cascade and forms a clotting gel resulting in a tridimensional network stabilized by interactions between Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; fbers and the patient’s synovial proteins . Tis gel presents a mechanical and rheological behavior close to the synovial fuid with both lubrication and shock damping efect, ofering protection of the patient’s cartilage (unpublished results). Te frst objective of this study was to select the most efective among three enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; formulations containing the same components at diferent dosages and volumes. Te second objective was to compare the safety and efcacy of a single intra-articular administration of the selected enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; formulation with a reference Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; treatment (hylan G-F 20, Synvisc-One®, Sanof, France) during 6months in symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis; patients. Hylan G-F 20 was chosen as reference since it was shown to be safe and efective, and it provided statistically signifcant and clinically relevant pain relief in patients with knee Osteoarthritis; . Tis two-stage, prospective, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, controlled phase II/III study was conducted in 12 Belgian centers from 24 March 2016 (frst visit of frst patient) to 27 April 2018 (last visit of last patient). It was a two-stage study, with an interim analysis to be performed when 116 patients, i.e., 104 patients with available data considering a 10% drop-out, had been followed up for 3months or were discontinued from the study. Unblinded safety and efcacy data were assessed by an Independent Data Monitoring Committee (IDMedial compartment;). Te interim analysis was planned to re-assess the sample size and stop the trial for futility or important safety concerns if necessary. Te study was performed in accordance with the current version of the Declaration of Helsinki (Fortaleza, Brazil, October 2013) and the International Conference on Harmonization Good Clinical Practice Guideline. The study protocol, its amendments, and the patient information sheet were reviewed and approved by the appropriate independent Ethics Committees. Tis study was registered at clinicaltrials.gov (NCT02740231) and clinicaltrialsregister.eu (EudraCT number: 2015–002117-30). Eligible participants were 50–79-year-old men and women diagnosed with primary knee Osteoarthritis;, who were able to walk unassisted (crutch/walking stick use was allowed), had previous insufcient/failed response to analgesics and/or non-steroidal anti-infammatory drugs (Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s), were willing and able to abstain from knee physical therapy and braces during the study, and had a body mass index (Body mass index;) <35. Eligible patients had to fulfll the following American College of Rheumatology criteria: pain ≥40mm on a 0–100mm Visual Analogue Scale (Visual analog score;) during 3days preceding the screening visit, morning stifness ≤30min, and Kellgren-Lawrence grade II or III . Te list of exclusion criteria is given in Additional fle 1, Supplementary Text 1. After signing the Informed Consent Form, eligible patients were randomized (1:1:1:1) to receive one of the three evaluated enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; formulations (JTA-100/2, JTA200/2 and group of patients receiving an injection of JTA-004 with 200μg clonidine and 40mg hyaluronic acid;s) or the reference treatment (hylan G-F 20 in 6ml, reference group). Te three JTA004 formulations difered in clonidine concentration (50 or 100μg/ml) and volume of injection (2 or 4ml) (Table 1). Tey were provided as a freeze-dried powder for solution that needs to be reconstituted with sterile water before single intra-articular injection. Te reference treatment (hylan G-F 20) was a sterile viscoelastic solution provided in a ready-to-use syringe. Te solution (6ml) contained 48mg sodium hyaluronate. Although the use of the lateral midpatellar portal approach results in high accuracy rates of needle placement into the intra-articular space , the investigators could use another knee portal. Te injection was accomplished following puncture through the skin and into the joint space. Te use of local anesthesia prior to the intraarticular injection was at the discretion of the independent physician. If efusion was found in the knee upon needle placement in the joint space, it had to be removed before the injection. After withdrawing the needle from the joint space, light pressure was applied to the injection site, followed by application of a simple adhesive bandage. Te patient remained for 45min post-injection under clinical and blood pressure monitoring. Patients were advised to wait until the next day before returning to normal activities. For post-administration pain management, it was recommended that patients rest and apply ice to the injection site. Efcacy and safety were evaluated on the injection day and approximately 2weeks, 3months, and 6months after. At each follow-up visit, well-validated Western Ontario McMaster Universities (Western Ontario McMaster Universities.®) VA3.1 Osteoarthritis Scores were determined using self-administered, patient-centered health status questionnaires allowing a thorough evaluation of pain, stifness, and knee function (24 questions through three subscales) . Visual analog score; were used in the Western Ontario McMaster Universities. questionnaires, on which patients had to mark points on horizontal lines to represent their symptoms’ perceptions (from no symptoms  to extreme symptoms ). Te Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Scores were determined by measuring the distances from the left-hand end of the lines to the points that the patients marked. Te minimal clinically important diference (Medial compartment;onfdence interval.D) was defned as 20% or 10mm of the baseline . Te primary objective in the frst study stage was to select the most efective enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; formulation by comparing diferences between each JTA group and the reference group in adjusted mean changes from baseline at Month 3 in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Pain Subscale Score. Te primary objective in the second study stage was to demonstrate superiority of the efcacy of the selected formulation over the reference. enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; would be proven to be superior if the upper bound of the 95% confdence interval (Confdence interval.) of the diference in adjusted mean change in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Pain Subscale Score from baseline at Month 6 between the selected JTA and the reference groups was <0. Secondary endpoints included the Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Total Score over time and the Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Pain Subscale Score at Month 3 (Additional fle 2, Supplementary Table 1). Exploratory endpoints included the Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Total Score at Month 6, the Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Pain Subscale Score over time, the Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Physical Function Subscale and the Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Stifness Subscale Scores, Well-Being scores estimated by the Short Form Health Survey (Social functioning;-12 questionnaire, the abridged form of the Social functioning;-36 questionnaire taking into account physical elements, psychological aspects, and a subjective health perception ), and consumption of analgesics and Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s reported on patients’ open questionnaires at Month 6 and over time. Te safety endpoints included the evaluation of the occurrence of Adverse event;s and serious adverse events (SAdverse event;s) reported on patients’ open questionnaires, related or not to the product or procedures, abnormal laboratory results in terms of hematology, serum chemistry, and coagulation parameters, and clinically relevant fndings at physical examination (including vital signs) during the entire study duration. Treatment-related Adverse event;s included Adverse event;s for which the investigator answered “Yes” or “Possibly” to relationship with study treatment/procedures on the electronic Case Report Form and Adverse event;s with missing/ unknown relationship. An Interactive Web Response System was used to perform the randomization. Investigators (who recruited, included, and assessed patients) and patients were blind to treatment assignments. Only local pharmacists and the independent physicians performing the intra-articular injections were unblind. Based on published data , the scenario of a mean between-group diference of −7mm for the change in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Pain Subscale from baseline at Month 6 (i.e., enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; was better than the reference treatment by a mean of 7mm) with a standard deviation (Standard deviation.) of 10.5mm was assumed, which required 37 patients per group to reach a power of 80% to test for superiority, keeping the type I error at 0.05 (two-sided). With an estimated dropout level of 10%, 41 patients per group were planned to be included. Based on the diferences and associated variability in mean change from baseline in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Pain Subscale Score between the selected enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; formulation and the reference treatment observed at interim analysis, the IDMedial compartment; determined that the target sample size should be re-estimated in order to avoid underpowering the study results at the fnal analysis. Tey recommended to increase the sample size to 76 participants per group. However, it was decided that no additional participants would be recruited. Selection of the most efective enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; formulation at the interim analysis was based on the diferences between each JTA group and the reference group in mean changes from baseline in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Pain Subscale Score at Month 3. Diferences were determined by analyses of covariance (Analysis of covariance;) adjusted for diferences in baseline values. Teir Confdence interval.s were calculated using the Dunnett’s test procedure to control the experiment-wise error probability at 0.05 . Because the analysis of data at Month 3 was inconclusive, available data at Month 6 were also reviewed at interim analysis, as pre-specifed in the statistical analysis plan. At fnal analysis, the following pre-defned analyses were performed: mean changes in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Pain Subscale, Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Total, Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Physical Function and Stifness Subscales, and Social functioning;-12 Well-Being Scores between baseline and Month 6 and Month 3 were compared between the selected enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; formulation and the reference group by Analysis of covariance; analyses adjusted for baseline values (treatment group as fxed factor and baseline value as covariate). To evaluate changes over time, a Mixed-efect Model for Repeated Measurements was also used. To account for multiple comparisons between interim and fnal analyses and control the experiment-wise error probability at 0.05, adjusted 95% Confdence interval.s and p-values at fnal analysis were calculated using the Dunnett-corrected t-value . Tests of the secondary endpoints were performed in a sequential hierarchical manner based on Hochberg’s step-up-method at the two-sided signifcance level of 0.050 and 0.025 for each of the two secondary endpoints, respectively. If superiority could not be demonstrated under the statistical testing strategy for secondary endpoints, nominal p-values were provided for information only. For exploratory endpoints, p-values were also provided for information only. To further explore potentially clinically meaningful treatment efects, post-hoc exploratory analyses were performed to compare the non-selected JTA groups and the pooled data from all three JTA groups to the reference group. Missing values due to partially non-completed Western Ontario McMaster Universities. questionnaires were imputed as per the Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Osteoarthritis Index User Guide VII. Missing values for efcacy variables were not accounted for in the primary analysis; however, supportive analyses in which missing data were imputed as per a pre-defned algorithm were performed. Statistical analyses were performed using SAS® software version 9.2 (SAS Institute, Cary, NC, United States.A) Of the 229 screened patients, 173 had to be randomized to reach a total number of 164 treated patients (41 per group as planned per-protocol). Of these, 147 patients completed the study and attended the visit at Month 6 (Fig. 1). Since all patients were treated as assigned by randomization scheme, the Full Analysis Set (Full Analysis Set;, all randomized and treated patients) was identical to the Safety Set (all treated patients). Te mean age at enrollment was 62.7 years, and 68.3% of patients were women (Table 2). Te mean height, weight, and Body mass index; were 1.66m, 79.2kg, and 28.5kg/m2 . Overall, 55.5 and 44.5% of patients had knee Osteoarthritis; with a Kellgren-Lawrence grade II and III. Te baseline demographic characteristics of the study participants were mostly comparable between groups. Treatment administration was well-balanced between left and right knees, and mostly performed through lateral midpatellar and anterolateral approaches. Synovial fuid was aspirated before injection in 29 patients (mean volume : 4.1ml ). In one patient (reference group), the physician could not inject the entire treatment volume (5ml instead of 6ml). In the interim analysis, 116 patients were included (30, 29, 29, and 28 in the JTA-100/2, JTA-200/2, JTA-200/4, and reference groups). Te diference between each JTA group and the reference group in mean change from baseline in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Pain Subscale Score adjusted for baseline values was in favor of the JTA groups at Month 3 (Table 3). Te diference was largest for the group of patients receiving an injection of JTA-004 with 200μg clonidine and 40mg hyaluronic acid;. Te diference was still in favor of JTA groups for all formulations at Month 6, with the largest diference observed for the group of patients receiving an injection of JTA-004 with 200μg clonidine and 20mg hyaluronic acid;. Te same pattern, i.e., largest diference for the group of patients receiving an injection of JTA-004 with 200μg clonidine and 40mg hyaluronic acid; at Month 3 and the group of patients receiving an injection of JTA-004 with 200μg clonidine and 20mg hyaluronic acid; at Month 6, was observed for the Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Total and Physical Function Subscale Scores (Additional fle 2, Supplementary Tables 2 and 3). Since the primary endpoint in the second study stage was the diference in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Pain Subscale Score at Month 6, the IDMedial compartment; members based their decision on trends observed at Month 6 and selected the JTA200/2 formulation as the most efective with respect to the predefned decision rules. Te IDMedial compartment; concluded that there was no marked diference between treatment groups regarding the occurrence of Adverse event;s indicating safety concerns, and they recommended to continue the study. In the Full Analysis Set;, mean Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Pain Subscale Scores at baseline were 56.2mm (Standard deviation.: 20.6) and 46.5mm (19.7) in the JTA-200/2 (selected JTA formulation) and reference groups. Observed mean Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Pain Subscale Scores at subsequent visits were lower than at baseline in both groups (over time analysis; Fig. 2a). At Month 6, adjusted mean changes in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Pain Subscale Score from baseline were−23.6mm (standard error : 4.6) and−14.1mm (4.3) for the JTA-200/2 and reference groups (individual change analysis without missing data imputation; Fig. 3a). Te between-group diference in adjusted mean change from baseline was −9.49mm (95% Confdence interval.: −22.21, 3.23; p=0.141); statistical superiority of the JTA-200/2 formulation over the reference was not demonstrated. When the primary endpoint was analyzed with missing data imputation, adjusted mean changes in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Pain Subscale Score from baseline were−20.6mm (Standard error;: 4.3) and−16.0mm (4.3) for the JTA-200/2 and reference groups, with no statistically signifcant between-group diference (−4.69mm ; p=0.447). At Month 3, adjusted mean changes from baseline were−26.8mm (Standard error;: 3.9) and−15.1mm (3.7) for the selected enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; and reference groups (individual change analysis without missing data imputation), with no statistically signifcant (p>0.025) between-group diference (−11.63mm ; p=0.038) (Fig. 3b). At Month 3 and Month 6, adjusted mean changes from baseline in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Total Scores were−22.3mm (Standard error;: 3.8) and−23.7mm (4.3) in the group of patients receiving an injection of JTA-004 with 200μg clonidine and 20mg hyaluronic acid;, and−19.4mm (3.6) and−16.5mm (4.1) in the reference group (over time analysis; Table 4). Tere were no statistically signifcant diferences between the JTA-200/2 and reference groups at any time point (p>0.05). In the JTA-200/2 and reference groups, mean Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Physical Function Subscale Scores at subsequent visits were lower than at baseline (over time analysis; Fig. 2b). At Month 3 and Month 6, adjusted mean changes from baseline in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Physical Function Subscale Score were−23.8mm (Standard error;: 3.7) and−26.1mm (4.2) in the JTA200/2 group, and−17.7mm (3.5) and−16.1mm (4.0) in the reference group, with no statistically signifcant between-group diference (p>0.05). In the JTA-200/2 and reference groups, mean Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Stifness Subscale Scores at subsequent visits were lower than at baseline (over time analysis). At Month 3 and Month 6, adjusted mean changes from baseline in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Stifness Subscale Score were−19.3mm (Standard error;: 4.5) and−22.3mm (4.5) in the group of patients receiving an injection of JTA-004 with 200μg clonidine and 20mg hyaluronic acid;, and−25.2mm (4.3) and−18.7mm (4.3) in the reference group, with no statistically signifcant between-group difference (p>0.05) Individual Social functioning;-12 Physical and Mental Component Summary Scores were highly variable in both the JTA-200/2 and reference groups (Additional fle 2, Supplementary Tables 4 and 5). No conclusion could be drawn from these data. Tere were no consistent changes in consumption of analgesics and Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s in either treatment group over time and no clinically relevant diferences between treatment groups (Additional fle 2, Supplementary Tables 6 and 7). In post-hoc analyses, observed mean Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Pain Subscale Scores at subsequent visits were lower than at baseline in both non-selected JTA groups (JTA-100/2 and JTA-200/4; over time analysis; Additional fle 3, Supplementary Figs. 1a and 2a). Te statistical signifcance criterion was only met for the group of patients receiving an injection of JTA-004 with 200μg clonidine and 40mg hyaluronic acid; at Month 3 (individual change analysis; Fig. 3b). When analyzing the pooled JTA group and the reference group, changes in adjusted mean Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Pain Subscale Score from baseline were−27.2mm (Standard error;: 2.2) and−16.4mm (3.7) at Month 3, and−26.1mm (2.4) and−15.6mm (4.1) at Month 6, for the respective groups. Diferences in adjusted mean changes from baseline between the pooled JTA and reference groups were−10.79mm (p=0.014) at Month 3 and−10.57mm (p=0.030) at Month 6, meeting the statistical signifcance criteria (individual change analysis; Fig. 3). For the Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Total Scores, post-hoc analyses in the non-selected JTA groups (JTA-100/2 and JTA-200/4) and in the pooled JTA group compared with the reference group showed no statistically signifcant between-group diferences in adjusted mean change from baseline (over time analysis; Table 4, Additional fle 2, Supplementary Table 8). For the Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Physical Function Subscale Score, post-hoc analyses in the non-selected JTA groups (JTA100/2 and JTA-200/4) compared with the reference groups showed no statistically signifcant betweengroup diferences in adjusted mean change from baseline (over time analysis; Additional fle 3, Supplementary Figs. 1b and 2b). When analyzing the pooled JTA group and the reference group, adjusted mean changes from baseline in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Physical Function Subscale Score were−27.0mm (Standard error;: 2.2) and−18.0mm (3.7) at Month 3, and−26.7mm (2.4) and−17.3mm (4.1) at Month 6, for the respective groups (data not shown). Diferences in adjusted mean changes from baseline in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Physical Function Subscale Score between the pooled JTA and reference groups were−8.97mm (Standard error;: 4.32) at Month 3 (p=0.040) and−9.40mm (4.81) at Month 6 (p=0.053), meeting the statistical signifcance criteria at Month 3 (individual change analysis; Additional fle 3, Supplementary Fig. 3). Te mean follow-up duration for the 164 treated patients was 6.3months (Standard deviation.: 1.0). During the study, 116 (70.7%) patients experienced 292 Adverse event;s, with no signifcant differences between groups. Among these, 49 Adverse event;s were considered treatment-related by the investigator: 5 in 3 (7.3%) patients in the JTA-100/2, 12 in 8 (19.5%) patients in the JTA-200/2, 15 in 12 (29.3%) patients in the JTA200/4, and 17 in 11 (26.8%) patients in the reference groups. Fewer treatment-related events were observed in the group of patients receiving an injection of JTA-004 with 100μg clonidine and 20mg hyaluronic acid; (Table 5). Moreover, 36 Adverse event;s were considered related to study procedures by the investigator: 4 in 3 (7.3%) patients in the JTA-100/2, 10 in 6 (14.6%) patients in the JTA-200/2, 12 in 9 (22.0%) patients in the JTA-200/4, and 10 in 8 (19.5%) patients in the reference groups (Additional fle 2, Supplementary Table 9). Again, fewer procedure-related events were observed in the group of patients receiving an injection of JTA-004 with 100μg clonidine and 20mg hyaluronic acid;. Te most frequently reported study treatment- or procedure-related Adverse event;s across all groups were arthralgia, injection site pain, and hypotension (4  patients in the JTA-200/4, 2  patients in the JTA-200/2, and no patient in the JTA-100/2 and reference groups had mild and short-lasting hypotension after injection). Eight patients experienced 11 SAdverse event;s: 4 in 4 (9.8%) patients in the JTA-100/2, 5 in 2 (4.9%) patients in the JTA-200/2, 1 (2.4% of patients) in the JTA-200/4, and 1 (2.4% of patients) in the reference groups. No SAdverse event;s were reported by more than one patient (Table 6). One patient in the group of patients receiving an injection of JTA-004 with 200μg clonidine and 20mg hyaluronic acid; experienced 3 SAdverse event;s considered as possibly related to study treatment or procedures: 1 acute osteomyelitis event and 2 chronic osteomyelitis events at the same location. Acute osteomyelitis was reported as a Suspected Unexpected Serious Adverse Reaction (SUnited States.AR) by the sponsor as precautionary measure. Upon complete case review, the event was assessed as not study treatment- or procedure-related. More details are given in Additional fle 1, Supplementary Text 2. Two patients experienced 2 Adverse event;s leading to study withdrawal: 1 in the group of patients receiving an injection of JTA-004 with 100μg clonidine and 20mg hyaluronic acid; (arthralgia) and 1 in the group of patients receiving an injection of JTA-004 with 200μg clonidine and 20mg hyaluronic acid; (acute osteomyelitis; SUnited States.AR). No deaths were reported. Tis study aimed to select the most efective formulation of a new enhanced protein solution (enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine;) for knee Osteoarthritis; treatment and to compare its efcacy and safety with a reference treatment (hylan G-F 20) during 6months. Te enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; formulation selected for fnal analyses contained 200μg clonidine and 20mg Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; in 2ml (JTA200/2). Its statistical superiority over the reference treatment could not be demonstrated by the diference in adjusted mean changes in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Pain Subscale Score from baseline at 6months post-injection, although a clinically relevant diference between groups was observed (>10mm, the Medial compartment;onfdence interval.D). Tis non-signifcant result for the primary endpoint was probably due to the lack of study power, rather than lack of efect, due to the larger variation of the primary endpoint estimates (observed Standard deviation.: 25–30mm) than anticipated based on the literature (expected Standard deviation.: 10.5mm). Although the selected enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; formulation induced larger improvements than the reference in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Pain Subscale, Physical Function Subscale, and Total Scores at all timepoints, no diferences met the statistical signifcance criteria. Post-hoc analyses of the non-selected enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; formulations (JTA-100/2 and JTA-200/4) provided results similar to the selected formulation, and no clear beneft of one formulation over another could be evidenced. In other post-hoc analyses, improvements in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Pain Subscale Scores compared with baseline were larger in the pooled patients who received any of the three enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; formulations than patients receiving the reference treatment. Here, statistical signifcance criteria were met, and diferences were clinically important (>10mm, the Medial compartment;onfdence interval.D) at 3 and 6months post-injection. Improvements in the Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Physical Function Subscale from baseline were also statistically signifcantly larger in the pooled patients who received enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; than the reference at 3months post-injection. While our primary efcacy analysis was statistically inconclusive, the larger pain and function improvements observed with enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; compared with the reference are encouraging since injections of Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; or its derivatives were shown to result in pain relief, and joint function and quality of life improvements in knee Osteoarthritis; patients , leading to the introduction of intra-articular Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; injections in international recommendations . However, other studies have shown that pain and function improvements post-Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; injections were similar or only slightly higher than with saline placebo, highlighting the importance of the placebo efect with intra-articular injections . In our study, the potentially larger efect observed with enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; compared with the reference may be explained by the fact that besides the natural Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; polysaccharide obtained by bacterial fermentation, enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; also contains active substances with jellifcation and anti-infammatory properties (human plasma protein solution). enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; jellifes through the coagulation cascade and forms a clotting gel, resulting in a tridimensional network entrapping Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; fbers, plasma proteins, and synovial proteins of the patient . Tis formulation with the resulting clotting gel ofers the potential for a better lubrication and protection of the cartilage with a prolonged efect (unpublished data). Other injectable medications causing regenerative changes in tissue structure and reducing Osteoarthritis; symptoms have been developed. Blood derivatives, especially autologous PRole-physical; intra-articular injections stimulating the cartilage healing process and improving the damage caused by articular disease, were shown to have a superior efect than Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; for knee Osteoarthritis; treatment  Two randomized studies have shown that combinations of PRole-physical; and Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; improved arthralgia and increased physical function compared with PRole-physical; or Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; alone . Intra-articular Plasma Rich in Growth Factor injections are also under investigation . Although we did not compare these treatments with enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine;, the potentially larger improvement induced by our enhanced protein solution compared with the reference may indicate that enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; could be an efective treatment option for knee Osteoarthritis; patients. Other intra-articular treatments are currently evaluated but were not compared with Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; injections. Tey include intra-articular triamcinolone acetonide extended-release injections, approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration to treat knee Osteoarthritis; , and intra-articular capsaicin, which has analgesic properties and induced signifcant improvement in pain compared with placebo in knee Osteoarthritis; patients in a phase II study . In our study, all evaluated enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; formulations showed a clinically acceptable safety profle. Four patients in the JTA-200/4 and two patients in the group of patients receiving an injection of JTA-004 with 200μg clonidine and 20mg hyaluronic acid;s had mild and short-lasting post-injection hypotension, which may be caused by the clonidine (antihypertensive medication) contained in enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; or by a vasovagal episode. Tere were fewer treatment-related events observed in the group of patients receiving an injection of JTA-004 with 100μg clonidine and 20mg hyaluronic acid;, notably no cases of post-injection hypotension. Te limitations of this double-blind study included the larger inter-patient variability than anticipated for all assessed clinical endpoints, shown by the Standard deviation. amplitudes, and the lack of study power due to the fact that the IDMedial compartment; recommendation to increase the sample size to 76 participants per group was not followed at the time of the interim analysis. Other limitations were the fact that the study was only conducted in one country and the diferences in terms of preparation between the enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; formulations (kits containing vials of freeze-dried enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; and resuspension solution) and the reference treatment (ready-to-use syringe). A further limitation was the fact that patients did not have to stop medications before measuring the outcomes at the various study visits. In addition, while both men and women were included in the study, no subanalyses based on sex or gender were performed. A further drawback was the absence of placebo-receiving control group; nevertheless, this was accounted for by our choice of reference, which had shown superiority over placebo . Te present study showed a clinically acceptable safety profle of all evaluated enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; formulations and provided preliminary evidence of the efcacy of enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; for the treatment of symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis;. Our results did not indicate a statistically signifcant beneft of one specifc enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; formulation with respect to the reference treatment. Nevertheless, the statistically signifcant superiority of the pooled JTA group versus the reference group in the post-hoc analyses indicates a potentially clinically relevant impact of enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine;. Te JTA-100/2 formulation showed a more favorable safety profle with comparable efcacy and was selected for Phase III studies. Tis study provided preliminary evidence of the safety of intra-articular injections of our enhanced protein solution enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; for the treatment of symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis;. While we did not demonstrate a superior efcacy of the selected enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; formulation over the reference treatment, post-hoc analyses on pooled data from all formulations showed statistically signifcantly larger improvements in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. Pain Subscale Scores for enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; than the reference at Month 6 and Month 3. A phase III randomized controlled trial with a larger sample size is needed to evaluate whether enhanced protein solution  supplemented with hyaluronic acid and clonidine; is efective and could be an alternative minimally invasive viscosupplement therapeutic option to control pain and delay joint replacement surgery in patients with knee Osteoarthritis;.