Knee osteoarthritis (KOsteoarthritis;) is a chronic degenerative joint disease characterized by degenerative cartilage lesions and secondary bone hyperplasia of the knee joint . KOsteoarthritis; accounts for more than 80% of total osteoarthritis and is the leading cause of disability, decrease quality of life in the adult and elderly population . Te management of KOsteoarthritis; may be requiring long-term treatment, leading to signifcant fnancial strain on individuals, families, and society as a whole. Consequently, it is imperative to investigate and fnd efective therapeutic approaches for individuals with KOsteoarthritis;, benefting both the afected individuals and society at large. To date, there is no proven treatment method that can reverse the course of KOsteoarthritis; . Current therapeutic strategies for KOsteoarthritis; are focus on improving muscle strength or relieving pain, including medication, physical exercise, intra-articular injection, etc. Clinical guidelines recommend physical exercise as one of the most critical nonpharmacological treatments of KOsteoarthritis; , which has been proven to improve knee function efectively . Quadriceps strengthening is an critical component of the exercise program because it has been found that patients with KOsteoarthritis; always have signifcant quadriceps weakness . Previous studies indicate quadriceps strengthening is beneft for the relief of knee joint pain and stifness and improving quality of life . Although exercise is efective in KOsteoarthritis;, a recent meta-analysis indicated its treatment benefts are moderate for pain and function, performance at or nearest to 8 weeks. Besides, the exercise efects appeared to peak around 2 months and then gradually decreased and became no better than usual care after 9 months . It means the efects of exercise will plateau and pain always persist. Leandro et al.  also have proved that exercise treatment efectiveness and adherence seem to decrease over time. In recent years, more and more evidence has proved that low activation of M1  and secondary to gamma loop  and motor-sensory circuit disorders  may be potential reasons for weakness of quadricep muscles in KOsteoarthritis;. It can be seen that the enhancement of muscle strength for KOsteoarthritis; is not only about the improvement and optimization of muscle strength training program, but also about the activation of brain areas. Terefore, the M1 may be a potential neurotherapeutic target for therapy in KOsteoarthritis; . Furthermore, another study showed that chronic pain in KOsteoarthritis; can also further increase motor cortex inhibition. Te chronic pain in KOsteoarthritis; patients is not necessarily related to damage to the peripheral muscular system, but rather to neuroplastic changes in painrelated circuits that result in maladaptive neuroplasticity and lead to a perpetuation of pain . Te neuroplasticity changes in response to constant peripheral pain and less intracortical inhibition, which leads to enhance the levels of pain and dysfunction . Non-invasive brain stimulation is an increasingly growing domain of rehabilitation therapeutics for clinical neurological disorders. A variety of techniques for transcranial brain stimulation has been proposed, such as, Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS), Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (Traditional moxibustion;S) . A general opinion is that modulation of neuronal excitability by tDCS is a relatively simple function (e.g., cortical excitability is reduced by cathodal stimulation and increased by anodal stimulation) and tDCS efects are difcult to predict, rarely used to treat diseases with various neural circuits, such as, pain related to central sensitization . For Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation, the magnetic feld pulse delivered by a stimulating coil applied on the scalp is able to pass through skull bone without being attenuated and to generate an electric feld when entering the brain. Te intensity of the induced current is sufcient to produce action potentials and to activate brain networks safely and painlessly . Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation has been proposed to treat various pain syndromes related to central sensitization phenomenon, a Level A of defnite analgesic efect was stated for the use of high frequency Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation of M1 applied contralaterally to the pain side in patients with neuropathic pain. Previous study demonstrated that the chronic pain associated with KOsteoarthritis; may develop in connection with a maladaptive process of pain sensitization in the central nervous system . Hence, there is a basis for speculation that Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation could be benefcial in alleviating pain associated with KOsteoarthritis;. Although the positive rehabilitation efect of quadriceps strengthening and high-frequency Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation for KOsteoarthritis; have been demonstrated, respectively, the synergistic efect of the combination of the two for treat KOsteoarthritis; is still unclear. Terefore, the randomized controlled trial is designed to observe whether high-frequency Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation combined with quadriceps strength training can better improve the knee function and reduce pain in KOsteoarthritis; patients than quadriceps strength training alone and explore the mechanism of this combined rehabilitation. Te study will provide a new perspective on the treatment of KOsteoarthritis;. Tis study will be a randomized controlled trial with a parallel-group design. A total of 148 eligible participants will be assigned to the quadriceps strength training (QT group); high frequency Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (HT group); sham Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation and quadriceps strength training (ST+Q group); high frequency Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation and quadriceps strength training (HT+Q group) at 1:1:1:1 ratio using stratifed randomization with gender, age and Kellgren-Lawrence (Kellgren & Lawrence;) grade as factors. A brief fowchart of the entire study is shown in Fig. 1 and the schedule of events is provided in Table 1. Te study protocol was approved by the Ethics Committee of Shanghai Seventh People’s Hospital (2022-7th-HIRB-065) and registered in the Chinese Clinical Trial Registry (ChiCTR2300067617). Te sample size was determined based on the priori power analysis through G*Power software version 3.1.9.2. Outcome Measures in Rheumatology-Osteoarthritis;RSI hip and knee osteoarthritis core outcome set  showed that the pain is the most core outcome and the percentage frequency is 94.8% from 1997 to 2017. Furthermore, Guinot et al.  reported that the efect size of Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation for improve pain score in patients with fbromyalgia was 0.24. Terefore, the efect size was set as 0.24 in the present protocol. In the calculations, Analysis of variance; repeated measures between factor was chosen, efect size 0.24, alpha 0.05, power 0.80, number of groups 4, number of measures 6, and the sample size was calculated as 116. Taking into account a conservative anticipation of a 20% drop-out rate, the fnal sample size will therefore be 37 in each group, with a total of 148 subjects. 1. Meet the diagnostic criteria for KOsteoarthritis; set by the AComputed radiography; in 2019  2. Age between 40 and 60 years old 3. Kellgren-Lawrence (Kellgren & Lawrence;) grade II to III based on radiographic classifcation  4. Have a minimum score of 25 on the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;) total score 5. Sign an informed consent form 1. Knee or hip arthroplasty 2. Any uncontrolled non-musculoskeletal conditions that would make testing difcult and uncomfortable, such as unstable heart conditions 3. Neurological condition that afects lower-limb strength or walk (e.g., stroke) 4. Have a contraindication for Traditional moxibustion;S use such as: the existence of metal in the skull or implanted devices, epilepsy history, pregnancy 5. Use of drugs that might afect cortical electrical activity (anticonvulsants, antidepressants or antipsychotics) 6. Have a contraindication for Magnetic resonance imaging; use, such as: pacemaker, metal implant etc. 1. Inability to return for treatment for any reason 2. Adverse events occur due to treatment 3. Participants who receive other interventions to treat KOsteoarthritis; or others that may interfere with the results of this study (e.g., using intra-articular or oral corticosteroids; post-surgical knee, knee or hip joint replacement surgery, tibial osteotomy; participating in regular physical exercise, such as swimming, cycling, etc.) All patients with KOsteoarthritis; will be recruited from the orthopedics or joint surgery department of Shanghai Seventh People’s Hospital in China and communities around the hospital. Recruitment methods will include posters, online advertisements, and leafets. We will communicate with prospective participants about the study details. After the patients voluntarily sign the informed consent, they will be invited to participate in the study. Recruitment will start from 1 October 2023, until when 148 participants are enrolled. A total of 148 eligible participants will be assigned to four groups at a 1:1:1:1 ratio using stratifed randomization with gender, age and Kellgren & Lawrence; grade as factors in this research. Te stratifed randomization will be achieved as follows: Firstly, participants will be invaded into men and women two groups. Secondly, the two groups will be grouped by age (<50 and≥50). Lastly, the four groups will be grouped by Kellgren & Lawrence; grade (II and III), a total of 8 subgroups. In these eight subgroups, the subjects will be randomly regrouped the QT group, HT group, ST+Q group and HT+Q group. Finally, all four groups will be regrouped into four new groups to minimize the bias of the fnal results. Te randomization procedure is performed by an independent research assistant who is not comes into contact with the participant at any point prior to randomization and is not involved in the data collection using Microsoft Excel to generate the random number (https://www.microsoft.com). Allocation concealment will be performed by using sealed, opaque envelopes which will hide a serial number. Additionally, an independent study researcher will open the envelopes in sequence after participants complete all baseline assessments to avoid selective bias. Due to the visibility of the quadriceps strength training intervention, physiotherapists and patients cannot be blind to intervention allocation. Terefore, the blinding will only be applied to the assessors and statisticians who responsible for data collection and fnal statistical analyses in this study to avoid implementation bias and measurement bias. Importantly, they will not participate in the participant recruitment process. All participants will receive usual care management, including health education and physical therapy when necessary. Six qualifed physiotherapists who have attained the physical therapist’s certifcation with over 5 years of experience will be trained beforehand to instruct and guide patients in carrying out these exercises. Te interventions in four groups will be carried out 5 days per week for a total of 12 weeks. In the QT group, the participants will receive 20 min quadriceps strength training intervention by using Biodex Multi-Joint System 3 dynamometer (Biodex Medicalt, Shirley, NY, USA). Te 12- week intervention duration period has been chosen based on evidence that at least 12 sessions of supervised exercise are required for exercise to be efective in KOsteoarthritis;, with a number of studies demonstrating symptom improvement in KOsteoarthritis; after 8–12 weeks of exercise . Tus, 12 weeks should be sufcient to show improvement in this population. We will modify the program according to the user’s manual to reduce the risk to participants and check the device for calibration errors. All participants will be informed how the test will be and its purposes. Tey will conduct two familiarization sessions before the formal intervention to ensure that they feel comfortable during the exercises and perform the technique correctly. After familiarization sessions, participants will be instructed to sit in an isokinetic dynamometer and the V elcro® fxation straps will be tied around the chest, hip and distal thigh of the training limb to prevent compensatory motion from occurring. Te dynamometer axis will be aligned with the canter of the lateral femoral condyle. Te lever arm will be adjusted according to the training leg length and the resistance will be applied anterior to the ankle joint. Te training knee will be kept at a 90° fexed position and they will be instructed to extend knee at angular velocities of 60°/sec, 90°/sec and 120°/sec with 15 repetitions in 3 sets. Rest periods of 30 s between each test extension and 2 min between each velocity will be given. Training will be performed 5 days per week for 12 weeks. A regular physiotherapist will conduct all isokinetic testing with verbal stimuli. Outcome parameters will be assessed by an independent evaluator, who is experienced in handling isokinetic devices . Te peak torque (TQPEAK), TQPEAK adjusted for body weight (TQPEAK/BW) and agonist–antagonist (agon/antag) ratio will be the outcomes. In the HT group, the participants will receive 20 min high-frequency Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation training intervention. Te Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation will be performed with a Super-Rapid Magstim Stimulator (Te Magstim Co., Whitland, UK), including a fgure-8 type coil. Te reason why we chose the fgure-8 type coil is not only because it has a stronger focus, but it reduces the risk of seizures and other side efects than the h-coil and circular type coil . All of the Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation program will be performed as the recommendations of the International Federation of Clinical Neurophysiology . Te coil will be placed in the M1 area on the opposite side of the pain and uniformly in the left when the patient has bilateral knee pain, as in previous Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation studies . To determine the coil position, we frst will place the center of the helmet to install the fgure-8 type coil at a point 1 cm lateral and 1 cm posterior from Cz. Ten, we will identify the location and angle of the helmet by identifying the minimum stimulator intensity needed to cause a motor response in the targeted lower limb. We will keep the front surface of the helmet facing forward to ensure that the coil orientation is the same. Te resting motor threshold (rMT) will be defned as the lowest intensity that produced fve responses with peak-to-peak amplitude of at least 50mv in ten consecutive trials. We will determine the coil position and estimation of MT before the high-frequency Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation session and the parameters are as follows: 10 Hz stimulation for 4 s per session, with a 40 s interval between sessions, 30 sessions per treatment, totaling 1200 pulses at 90% rMT over M1 of the target hemisphere. In the ST+Q group, sham Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation will be delivered with the coil angle rotated 90° and only one wing of the coil touching the scalp of the participant to avoid inducing actual stimulation. Te parameters, including noise, time, and frequency of the sham Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation, will be the same as HT groups . Each patient will receive sham Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation daily for fve consecutive days. In the HT+Q group, the participants will receive active High-frequency Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation and quadriceps strength training intervention with randomization of treatment order. Te parameters, including noise, time, and frequency of the High-frequency Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation, will be the same as HT groups, and the detail of quadriceps strength training will be the same as described above. Participants will be assessed by other physiotherapists blinded to the group allocation at diferent time points based on diferent assessments shown in Table 1. Additionally, baseline age, gender, symptoms, disease severity, duration, previous treatment and medication will be recorded using a questionnaire (in week 0). Te primary end-point is the 12 weeks and all side efects during the study also will be recorded in real time. Te Visual Analog Scale (Visualanalogue scale;) will be used as one of the primary outcomes to evaluate the improvement of knee pain, which consists of a 10-cm line, where 0 represents “no pain” and 10 represents “worst possible pain”. Te participants will be asked to recall knee pain related to knee joint movement in the previous week and mark on the line. Te reliability and validity of the Visualanalogue scale; in application of musculoskeletal conditions is proved good . In order to determine the clinical signifcance of the change in Visualanalogue scale; score, the minimal clinically important diference (Minimum clinically important diference) will be employed, and the Minimum clinically important diference set as 1.16 based on previous study . Te maximal isokinetic muscle strength will be assessed by the Biodex Multi-Joint System 3 dynamometer (Biodex Medicalt, Shirley, NY, USA). Isokinetic exercise is a mode of speed-constant training, that can be used at low, moderate and high velocity for diferent evaluations and rehabilitation programs and provides reliable data. It is actually always used to quantify muscle strength, treatment and rehabilitation efcacy with mechanical or neurological instability of the knee or ligament injury . Te Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score;, http://www.koos.nu, Chinese version) is a questionnaire that is self-administered and participants need approximately 10 minutes to answer all questions . Diferent from Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;), Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; has a more comprehensive assessment including fve subscales: pain, symptom (stif), activity of daily living, physical function, quality of life. Every question has a minimum score of 0 and a maximum of 4 points. After the score of each part is calculated separately, it is converted into a percentage score by the conversion formula. 0 points of the converted percentage score mean that the function of this part of the joint is very poor, while 100 points means that the function of this part of the joint is completely normal . Te Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; shows good validity and reliability for patients with mild to moderate KOsteoarthritis; . Te Minimum clinically important diference of the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; score set as 10 based on previous study . Te 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey (36-Item Short Form Survey Instrument;, Chinese version) is the secondary outcome measure which is a health-related questionnaire, and used to assess the quality of life (QOL) with high reliability and validity . Te scale is divided into physical health QOL and mental health QOL and includes 36 questions in total. Te former consists of physical function, social function, physical role function and emotional role function, Te latter contains mental health, energy fatigue, pain, and general health. Te scale assesses QOL over the past month and the score of the 36-Item Short Form Survey Instrument; is 0–100 with higher scores indicating better QOL. . Te Minimum clinically important diference of the 36-Item Short Form Survey Instrument; score set as 2.5 based on previous studies . Transcranial magnetic stimulation (Traditional moxibustion;S) is a noninvasive brain stimulation tool and commonly used to measure the functional level of cortex excitability and physiology in vivo . Te motor evoked potential (MEP) is an important index marker of corticospinal excitability which means when magnetic stimulation over M1, the descending pathway produces excitability and contralateral muscle contraction of the recorded value. Te cortical silent period (CSP) represents momentary suppression of MEP due to GABAergic. Te short intracortical inhibition (SIConfidence interval;) and intracortical facilitation (ICF) which represent inhibitory and excitatory activation of interneurons within the motor cortex are thought to probe GABAA-mediated inhibition and glutamatergic facilitation . Magnetic resonance imaging; scan will use a 3.0-T GE scanner (General Electric, Milwaukee, WI, USA) with an eight-channel phasedarray head coil at the Medical Imaging Department of Shanghai Seventh People’s Hospital in China. Two independent Magnetic resonance imaging; scans who are radiologists trained in brain Magnetic resonance imaging; measurements and having ten years of work experience will be performed on each participant at baseline and after the 12-week intervention. Before the Magnetic resonance imaging; evaluation, the scanner will require the participant to rest for 10 min and participants will be asked to stay awake with eyes closed during the entire Magnetic resonance imaging; scan. Resting-state functional Magnetic resonance imaging; images (Resting state functional Magnetic resonance imaging; images) will be acquired with the following parameters: TR=2100 ms, TE=30 ms, fip angle=90°, voxel size =3.125 mm×3.125 mm×3.6 mm, 42 axial slices, feld of view (FOV)=200 mm×200 mm, phases=230. We also collected high-resolution T1-weighted structural images(T1WI), using a Three-dimensional;-BRheumatoid Arthritis;VO sequence with the following parameters: TR=8.2 ms, TE=3.2 ms, fip angle=12°, FOV=220 mm 20 mm, Matrix=256,256, slice thickness=1 mm . Te Magnetic resonance imaging; outcomes include the following: grey matter (GM) density, white matter (WM), subcortical nuclei volumes, cortical thickness; functional connectivity (FC). Te DPhysical activity;RSF (http://rfmri.org/DPhysical activity;RSF) will be used to conduct fMagnetic resonance imaging; data preprocessing  and the FSL tools (FMagnetic resonance imaging;B Software Library) will be used to process T1WI structure data analysis . Te volumes of neocortical GM, total GM, and WM will be obtained by SIENAX (part of FSL 5.0) . Te normalized volumes of subcortical nuclei volumes will be estimated from FMagnetic resonance imaging;B’s integrated registration and segmentation tool (part of FSL 5.0, FMagnetic resonance imaging;B Software Library) . Te cortical thickness will be obtained using FreeSurfer. Every adverse event during the study will be recorded and reported by the safety ofcer. All potential risks during the study are listed on the participant’s Informed Consent Form. All of them will complete an adverse efects questionnaire for Traditional moxibustion;S and Magnetic resonance imaging; after intervention. Statistical analysis will be performed using IBM SPSS Statistics 25 (http://www.spss.com.hk). Intention-totreat (Intention-to-treat;) analysis will be used to analyze the result which means the last observation will be used for interpolation when data missing. Continuous variables will be described as mean±Standard deviation; for normal distributions, or median and inter-quartile ranges for non-normal distributions, while categorical variables will be described as frequency. For continuous variables that meet the assumptions of a normal distribution and homogeneity of variance, we will use the Two-way of variance with repeated measures; the Wilcoxon test will be used if not. A chi-square test will be used for categorical variables. Pearson correlation coefcient will be performed to detect the correlation between the primary outcomes (Visualanalogue scale;, TQPEAK) and secondary outcomes (MEP, FC). When analyzing data obtained by repeated measurements, we will use two-tailed multivariate analysis of variance. Te results will be considered statistically signifcant when the P value is less than 0.05. Te post hoc comparisons will be performed by the Bonferroni correction for multiple comparisons if necessary. Te initial study idea was conceived by the study team. Te patients with KOsteoarthritis;, physiotherapists, orthopedist and experts from Shanghai Association of Rehabilitation Medicine took part in preparation of the proposal with face-to-face interviews. In addition, the study protocols also will be modifed and supplemented utter concerns not addressed in a draft proposed at the time based on their feedback, to ensure the safety and applicability of the intervention. Furthermore, standardized protocol, technical operations, and clinical applications will also be disseminated through Shanghai Association of Rehabilitation Medicine. KOsteoarthritis; is classifed as a peripheral joint disease, but changes in sensation-movement and pain are mediated by the central nervous system. Rasch et al. proved that the muscle weakness caused by osteoarthritis is related to decreased joint function and increased pain, and that quadriceps training can increase muscle strength and relieve joint pain. Patients with KOsteoarthritis; often exhibit strength defciencies  and altered neuromuscular control  compared to those without KOsteoarthritis;, which may result in suboptimal load dissipation within the knee. Tough the motor output and pain changes resulting from KOsteoarthritis; have been well-studied, the central contribution to muscle activity is less well known. In this protocol, we design four groups to prove the therapeutic role of high-frequency Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation combined with quadriceps strength training compared to quadriceps strengthen training alone in KOsteoarthritis; patients with 12-week intervention and explore changes of brain volume and function connection before and after treatment. Tere are only two studies to prove the treatment efect when combined noninvasive brain stimulation (tDCS) with exercise has been publicized . However, the design of the trial was inadequate, which used inappropriate randomization procedures had a small sample size. And the evaluation is only limited to the change of pain in KOsteoarthritis;. Tus, we designed a stricter study to explore the dual clinical efects of reducing pain and muscle strength when the neuromodulation of the M1 with highfrequency Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation combined with quadriceps strength training in KOsteoarthritis;. In addition, to the best of our knowledge, this will be the frst single-blind study on Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation in KOsteoarthritis;. Moreover, we will also analyze the correlation measurements between the primary outcomes (Visualanalogue scale;, TQPEAK) and secondary outcomes (MEP, FC). Furthermore, the study’s exclusion criteria are relatively strict which will exclude many patients. In this case, it is possible to ensure that our experimental results have a certain degree of accuracy and validity. We recognize this study also has limitations. First, the blinding cannot be performed for the participants and the study operator, because of the visibility of the quadriceps strength training intervention, which might increase the risk of detection bias during the study’s implementation. Second, the exercise training in this protocol is only focuses on quadricep strengthening and not strengthening the whole kinetic chain. Although quadriceps weakness is closely related to the occurrence and development of KOsteoarthritis;, strengthening the whole kinetic chain may have greater rehabilitation benefts for KOsteoarthritis; than alone quadriceps strengthening. Tird, account for the absence of direct evidence on Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation for improve pain of KOsteoarthritis;, we incorporated the efect size of Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation in alleviating pian of the patients with fbromyalgia in sample size calculation . While there are distinctions between the two types of disease, they both involve central sensitization. In conclusion, the study will provide evidence to show whether there are synergistic efects following High-Frequency Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation act on M1 combined with quadriceps strength training and clarify the mechanism of action. Te study will help provide rehabilitation prescription recommendations for people with KOsteoarthritis;. Abbreviations KOsteoarthritis;: Knee osteoarthritis Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation: Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation Standard Protocol Items for Randomized Trials: Standard Protocol Items for Randomized Trials Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;: Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index Resting state functional Magnetic resonance imaging; images: Resting state functional Magnetic resonance imaging; images Case report form;s: Case report forms Visualanalogue scale;: Visual analogue scale Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score;: Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score 36-Item Short Form Survey Instrument;: 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey Magnetic resonance imaging;: Magnetic resonance imaging Intention-to-treat;: Intention-to-treat