Osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) is a common musculoskeletal disease that appears along with degenerative changes in the synovial joints and new bone formation . It is the most common form of arthritis and joint disorder that adversely afects the public health  and is the main known cause of disability. Recent estimations show that over 240 million people worldwide are sufering from this debilitating disease . Osteoarthritis; is commonly seen in pelvic, knees, spine, and fnger joints. However, knee Osteoarthritis; is the most prevalent Osteoarthritis; (33% prevalence) and has more clinical symptoms than any other forms of Osteoarthritis; . It is one of the fve causes of disability in the elderly . In the United States, 14 million people are afected and more than half of them are under 65 . American studies show that Osteoarthritis; is on the rise . Similarly, the prevalence of osteoarthritis seems to be increasing in Iran. In epidemiological studies, including Community Oriented Program for Control of Rheumatic Diseases (Community Oriented Program for Control of Rheumatic Diseases.) the worldwide prevalence of knee osteoarthritis has been estimated 7%. Te prevalence of Osteoarthritis; in Iranian population over 15 years old has been estimated to be 16.9% and that of knee Osteoarthritis; 15.5%. Regarding the prevalence of knee Osteoarthritis;, Iran is ranked third among the studied countries. Osteoarthritis reduces mobility, quality of life, and well-being , and increases health care and economic burden . Unfortunately, the growing elderly population, sedentary lifestyle and obesity can add to the complications and the prevalence of Osteoarthritis;. Te prevalence of chronic osteoarthritis is predicted to increase and become the most common chronic skeletal disease in 2040 . Aside from bone and joint damages, Osteoarthritis; appears as a result of degeneration and destruction of the articular cartilage. It is usually seen in people over 40 and has slow progression rate as a result of repeated natural or abnormal pressures . Knee osteoarthritis is caused by the incorrect performance of daily activities at younger age, as well as improper lifestyle and bodily movements . Women account for a higher percentage of the Osteoarthritis; patients  and female sex is a risk factor that increases the likelihood of developing Osteoarthritis; . Women experience greater incidence and more severity of Osteoarthritis; than men, so it is necessary a greater need for efective treatment and prevention of Osteoarthritis; in women. In addition, women often illustrate greater pain and more substantial reduction in function than men, which can lead to sarcopenia . Lower extremity muscle appears to play a greater role in the development of knee Osteoarthritis; in women than in men. Although, the prevalence of Osteoarthritis; is high, the population mean age is growing, and Osteoarthritis; efects on mental and physical health , there are currently no methods to cure or stop the cartilage destruction . Available treatment options are limited and at best can be efective on some patients . Te person with Osteoarthritis; lives with it for 26 years on average  and carries the burden of the disease for a long time. Not only the medical treatments, but also systematic health care is essential for proper treatment of Osteoarthritis; . Terefore, early diagnosis and continuous monitoring of Osteoarthritis; progress are important in establishing efective treatment . Osteoarthritis; treatment goals include relieving pain and infammation, lowering stifness, improving function or range of motion, and improving or maintaining the mobility, physical activity, and health-related quality of life . To achieve the treatment goals Patient education is needed. Tis is a continuous process and an integral part of patient management. Te trainer should consider diferent aspects of the disease and the benefts and risks of treatment options. Empowering the patients by involving them in the decision-making process and teaching them skills for positive changes in life is a lengthy process for treatment . Tis makes the individuals tired and may cause them to forget parts of their trainings. Terefore, patient education requires consistent monitoring of the patients’ performance. Due to decreased mobility and increased disability, the patient may not be able to visit the trainers in person and receive ongoing monitoring. Some believe that the available web-based approaches are more comfortable for the patients and can help them cope with the current shortage of skilled professionals and obstacles to ongoing face to face monitoring . Dallimore et al. reports that the patients who used iPad scored signifcantly better in terms of recovery indices and were more satisfed with their treatment than other patients . It has been also found that using technology tailored to users’ needs lead to continued training in patients with Osteoarthritis; and improve the motivational and behavioral factors . A study has shown that the use of pedometer to provide feedback on walking activities of Osteoarthritis; patients contributes to the attainment of Osteoarthritis; treatment goals . Another study found the use of smartphone app to be efective in training the Osteoarthritis; patients and improving their condition . Today, cell phones are part of everyday life, including health services. Mobile apps have the potentials to be exploited for medical purposes like instructing the patients for preventing diseases. In addition, the use of mobile apps can help for timely diagnosis and treatment, and lowering the costs of medical cares. Terefore, we decided to design a mobile app-based training program for patients with knee Osteoarthritis; and evaluate its efectiveness on physical performance and behavioral change of these patients. Designing such apps allows for better monitoring and consistent instruction because it saves time and money, and frees the patients from the troubles of visiting their doctors in person. Proper and timely education can improve the quality of life in Osteoarthritis; patients and reduce the incidence of knee osteoarthritis and its complications. Te present study is a parallel randomized controlled trial. Participants of the study were 40–70 year-old female patients with knee osteoarthritis referring to Imam Ali Hospital in Bojnurd, afliated to North Khorasan University of Medical Sciences. Te sample size was determined through consulting previous similar studies . Terefore, sample size was determined to consist of 28 people for each group using the G-power software with the confdence interval of 95% and the power of 80%. However, given the probability of a 10% drop in samples, 32 individuals were assigned to each group. After determining the sample size, 64 female patients with knee osteoarthritis were selected from the referrals to Imam Ali Hospital in Bojnourd using the inclusion criteria. Tey were asked to sign the informed consent form before participating in the study. Patients were assigned to the intervention or comparison groups using blocked randomization method. In order to prevent information exchange between the intervention and comparison groups, patients were planned to be visited on diferent days. Prior to the intervention, patients were assessed in terms of demographic characteristics, Osteoarthritis; condition and health status. To this end, demographic questionnaire, Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;, and 36-Item Short Form Survey Instrument; were completed for the patients in each group. In order to observe blindness and avoid bias in data collection, the researcher who was collecting information on patients’ performance and quality of life was kept unaware to which (intervention or comparison) groups the patients were belonging. Patients in the intervention group received all the educational content only through the mobile app. Tey were met only once at the beginning of the study to get familiar with using the app. Patients in the comparison group attended two face to face sessions; one introductory session at the beginning of the study and another one a month later of patients’ questions and further clarifcations. During the study, both groups received routine medical care. Te educational content provided to both intervention and comparison groups included learning about Osteoarthritis; and its causes, Osteoarthritis; risk factors, the healthy diet and nutrients, treatment modalities, and the exercises for Osteoarthritis; patients. Two months after the intervention, both groups were assessed again in terms of Osteoarthritis; condition and health status using OWMAC and 36-Item Short Form Survey Instrument; respectively. One patient from the intervention group and 3 patients from comparison group were excluded from the study because of discontinuing the treatment and participation. Finally, data from 60 patients (31 patients in the intervention group and 29 patients in the comparison group) were analyzed. Over an experimentation period was completed, the patients in the comparison group were also provided with the mobile app to get benefts from the instructions. Inclusion criteria: (1) signing the informed consent form, (2) having the symptoms of knee osteoarthritis confrmed through radiologic assessment, (3) being 40 to 70 years old, (4) having a smartphone that is always available, (5) knowing how to use the mobile apps. Exclusion criteria: (1) needing knee surgery during the study, (2) having intra-articular injections during the study, (3) sufering from mental illnesses, (4) unwilling to continue participation, (5) lacking the post-test data. Te data collection was done by employing three questionnaires: (a) demographic questionnaire that aimed to elicit data on the history of addiction, job, education, illness, age, Body mass index; and marital status, (b) Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;) questionnaire consisting of 24 questions in three areas of pain, stifness, and function of joints , (c) Short form of health survey questionnaire (36-Item Short Form Survey Instrument;) by Weir and Sherborne (1992) consisting of 36 items and 8 components of Vitality, Physical Functioning, Bodily Pain, General Health, Physical Role Functioning, Emotional Role Functioning, Social Role Functioning, and Mental Health . Data were analyzed by the student’s t test, and Analysis of variance; using SPSS 18. Te Analysis of covariance test was also used to adjust for the efects of the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; and 36-Item Short Form Survey Instrument; scores at the baseline. Adjusted scores of Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; and 36-Item Short Form Survey Instrument; were reported as mean (Standard deviation;). Signifcance level to interpret the statistical results was set at p≤0.05. Te fow diagram of participants in this clinical trial is shown in Fig. 1. Initially, 90 patients were included in the study using the inclusion criteria. However, 15 patients who were later found not eligible and 11 patients who were not willing to participate were excluded. Finally, the sample consisted of 64 female patients with knee osteoarthritis who were randomly assigned to two equal groups (intervention and comparison groups). Te baseline characteristics of the participants are shown in Table 1. Te results of the chi-square test showed that there was no signifcant difference between the two groups in terms of age, Body mass index;, history of addiction, occupation, co-morbidity, duration of illness and education (p < 0.05). Table 2 shows the means and standard deviations of the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; and 36-Item Short Form Survey Instrument; questionnaires at the beginning of the study. Te mean scores of intervention and comparison groups in general health were 18.67 (Standard deviation;=10.97) and 25.48 (Standard deviation;=13.17), respectively, and were signifcantly different before the intervention (p=0.035). Tere was no statistically signifcant diference between the two groups in other areas of Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; and 36-Item Short Form Survey Instrument; (p > 0.05). Table 3 shows the, the means of crude d and adjusted scores (both total and sub scores) in physical performance (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;) and quality of life (36-Item Short Form Survey Instrument;) after the intervention. Te adjusted p values are also shown in Table 3. It was observed that after the intervention there were signifcant diferences between the intervention and comparison groups in total, pain, and functional limitation scores of Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; (p < 0.005) except the stifness (p=0.618). Also, the results did not change after adjusting for baseline values using Analysis of covariance test. Te comparisons of the groups after the intervention in terms of the components of quality of life (36-Item Short Form Survey Instrument;) showed that the two groups were signifcantly diferent only in physical functioning and energy/fatigue. Physical functioning and energy/fatigue scores in the intervention group were 41.45 (8.68) and 67.09 (11.74) respectively, and in the comparison, group were 32.41 (7.51) and 56.72 (10.46) respectively (p < 0.005). After adjusting for baseline values, the diference between the two groups was also signifcant in the pain component (p=0.047). Overall, it was concluded that the mobile app-based training program improves the physical performance of the intervention group compared to the comparison group. Te purpose of this study was to evaluate the efcacy of mobile app-based-instruction in improving physical function of female patients with knee osteoarthritis. Te results showed that using mobile app-based-instruction signifcantly reduces pain, and improves the physical function and overall condition of patients with knee osteoarthritis. It also improved some aspects of quality of life, such as fatigue/energy, physical function and pain in intervention group compared to the comparison group. Tese results are in line with those of Danbjørg et al. , Dallimore et al. , Skrepnik et al. , Semple et al. , Brun Torup et al. . In these studies, an application or a web-based service was used to educate and monitor the recovery process of the patients. We found no studies pointing to the inefectiveness of mobile apps in improving the physical performance of patients with Osteoarthritis;. Certain explanations can be put forward on the efect of mobile app-based instruction in physical performance, pain perception and some aspects of health in patients with knee Osteoarthritis;. First, mobile app-based instruction provides easy access to reliable information. Efcient health care requires accurate and useful information which is difcult to obtain at times. Despite the information available in the twenty-frst century, people may not be able to get access to reliable and credible information. Tis justifes the attempts for direct access to a specialist for proper instructions. On the other hand, visiting a doctor frequently has been time-consuming and difcult for many Osteoarthritis; patients. Te educational app, not only makes it easy to access educational services, but also provides reliable and credible information. As a result, it increases the likelihood of the use of educational content by the patients. Second, mobile apps can be used at any time and place. Smartphones enable the patients to read the instructions and use them whenever they want. Tird, mobile apps make the patients more motivated to exercise and monitor their performance because mobile apps can have built-in mechanisms for allowing the patients to monitor their status and responding to their questions. Fourth, people are increasingly getting accustomed to use mobile apps. Tis growing habit of frequent use of mobile apps raises the efectiveness of mobile apps in instructing the patients. Based on the results of the present study and related studies, it can be concluded that using mobile appbased instructions can signifcantly reduce the pain and improve some health aspects in women with knee Osteoarthritis;. Accordingly, it is useful in medical, clinical and physiological management of knee osteoarthritis. Such benefts of mobile app-based instructions can have positive efects on the physical and mental health of people with knee Osteoarthritis; and increase their satisfaction and quality of life. As a result, mobile app-based instruction can be used to educate patients while saving their time and money. It is suggested that the benefts of mobile app-based instruction in other diseases be further studied. Due to fact statistical signifcance was not found in relation to the efect of mobile app-based instruction on some aspects of quality of life (as measured by SF-39), it is recommended that efcacy of mobile app-based instruction in improving diferent aspects of quality of life be further studied for longer periods of life. Abbreviations Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;: Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index; Osteoarthritis;:Osteoarthritis; Community Oriented Program for Control of Rheumatic Diseases.: Community Oriented Program for Control of Rheumatic Diseases.