Osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) is one of the most prevalent and debilitating joint diseases. It is pathologically characterized by loss of articular cartilage, hypertrophic bone changes, osteophyte formation, subchondral bone remodeling and low-grade synovial inflammation. In addition, it is clinically characterized by joint pain, nighttime pain, functional impairment and limited movement . Approximately 10% of the world’s population suffers from this disease and it has become the first major cause of human disability . Osteoarthritis; can affect the hand, spine, hip, wrist and ankle. However, knee Osteoarthritis; represents the most widespread form of this disease . Although, there are various therapeutic methods for Osteoarthritis;, such as surgery, drug and adjuvant therapy, it is difficult to completely stop the development of Osteoarthritis;, which results in continuous pain and even long-term disability . Thus, it is crucial to elucidate the precise underlying molecular mechanisms mediating its development in order to find novel, efficacious and promising therapeutic modalities for Osteoarthritis;. Osteoarthritis; has a multifactorial pathophysiology with mechanical, metabolic and inflammatory contributions to its etiology, with numerous risk factors such as age, gender and joint injury . In particular, accumulating evidence suggests that inflammation is a prominent etiology of Osteoarthritis;, and that chondrocytes and synovial cells overproduce many of the soluble inflammatory mediators, such as cytokines, chemokines, growth factors, adipokines, prostaglandins, leukotrienes and regulators such as CPB . Given the important role of inflammation in Osteoarthritis;, novel anti-inflammatory therapies could offer new opportunities for treating the disease. For example, Hwang et al., indicated that Zanthoxylum piperitum ethanol extract could decrease the levels of reactive oxygen species (Reactive oxygen species;) and the expression of hypoxanthine phosphoribosyl transferase 1 (health professional;RT1), thereby suppressing inflammation. This suggests that this extract might be a potential therapeutic agent to modulate Osteoarthritis; . Therefore, molecules involved in inflammation are attractive therapeutic targets for the treatment of Osteoarthritis;. Glucagon-like peptide-1; is an incretin hormone produced by intestinal enteroendocrine L cells in order to regulate glucose and energy homeostasis via Glucagon-like peptide-1;R binding and induction . Glucagon-like peptide-1; not only regulates blood glucose levels, but is also closely associated with various pathophysiological processes, such as inflammation. Thus, Glucagon-like peptide-1;R agonists, such as liraglutide, show beneficial effects on inflammation-related diseases. To this end, Chen et al., has suggested that activation of Glucagon-like peptide-1;R with liraglutide could protect chondrocytes against endoplasmic reticulum (Endoplasmic reticulum;) stress, apoptosis and inflammation by decreasing the release of inflammatory mediators and regulating phosphoinositide 3-kinase (Phosphoinositide 3-kinase;)/AKT signaling, which suggests that Glucagon-like peptide-1;R is a therapeutic target for the treatment of Osteoarthritis; and that liraglutide could be a therapeutic candidate for clinical application . Moreover, Glucagon-like peptide-1;R activates adenylyl cyclase (Adenylyl cyclase;) to produce cyclic adenosine monophosphate (Cyclic adenosine monophosphate;), which in turn activates protein kinase A (Protein kinase A;) that activates Cyclic adenosine monophosphate; response elementbinding protein (Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B), a constitutively expressed nuclear transcription factor that regulates the expression of genes involved in inflammation . However, to the best of our knowledge, to date, no data has been reported on whether Glucagon-like peptide-1;R exerts an anti-inflammatory effect on Osteoarthritis; through inhibition of the Protein kinase A;/Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B pathway. Moreover, intra-articular injection of monoiodoacetate (Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;) induces loss of articular cartilage with subchondral bone lesions that mimic those of human Osteoarthritis; and This model offers a rapid and minimally invasive method to reproduce Osteoarthritis;-like lesions in a rodent species . Thus, in the present study, we wanted to test whether Glucagon-like peptide-1;R agonist, liraglutide could alleviate inflammation by activating the Protein kinase A;/Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B pathway in a rat model of knee Osteoarthritis; induced by Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;, which might provide therapeutic candidate for the clinical management of Osteoarthritis;. The Glucagon-like peptide-1; agonist, liraglutide was purchased from Novo Nordisk (Princeton, NJ United States.A). Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;, used to induce Osteoarthritis; in rats, was purchased from Sigma-Aldrich (St. Louis, MO, United States.A). Rabbit anti-Glucagon-like peptide-1;R, Protein kinase A;, phospho-Protein kinase A; (Thr197), Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B, phospho-Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B (Ser 133), tumor necrosis factoralpha (Tissue Necrosis Factor-alpha), interleukin-1 beta (interleukin;-1β), and interleukin;-6 primary antibodies were purchased from Abcam (Cambridge, UK). Normal rabbit anti-IgG was purchased from Cell Signaling Technology (Cambridge, MA, United States.A). Rabbit antiglyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase;) and horseradish peroxidase (HRole-physical;)-conjugated goat anti-rabbit IgG were obtained from Proteintech (Chicago, interleukin;, United States.A). The protein A/G agarose beads were purchased from Santa Cruz Biotechnology (Santa Cruz, CA, United States.A). Immunohistochemical kits were obtained from Boster Biological Technology Co., Ltd. (Pleasanton, CA, United States.A). A total of 90 adult male Wistar rats, weighing approximately 200 to 250 g, were purchased from the Animal Experiment Center of the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing, China and were maintained in wooden cages at a temperature of 27 °C–30 °C, with a 12 h lightdark photo-periodicity cycle. Rats were given ad libitum access to food and water. The procedures were approved by the Ethics Committee of the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing, China and conformed to international animal care guidelines. All efforts were made to minimize animal discomfort and the number of animals sacrificed.Knee Osteoarthritis; was induced according to previous protocols . Briefly, 4 mg of Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; were dissolved in 40 μL of sterile saline and this volume of solution was injected intraarticularly through the patellar ligament of the left knee joint of each rat that had been anesthetized using 50 mg/kg sodium pentobarbital by intraperitoneal injection. For this study, we performed two experiments for different purposes. In the first experiment, a total of 60 rats were divided equally into control, Osteoarthritis;-1, Osteoarthritis;-5, Osteoarthritis;-10, Osteoarthritis;-20 and Osteoarthritis;-28 groups. The animals in the control group received an intraarticular injection of saline instead of Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;. The rats in the Osteoarthritis;-1, Osteoarthritis;-5, Osteoarthritis;-10, Osteoarthritis;20 and Osteoarthritis;-28 groups received an intraarticular injection of Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; and were sacrificed after 1, 5, 10, 20 and 28 days, respectively after intraarticular injection of Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;. In the second experiment, a total of 30 rats were divided equally into Osteoarthritis;, Osteoarthritis; + saline and Osteoarthritis; + liraglutide groups. All rats in the second experiment received an intraarticular injection of Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;. A previously published research used liraglutide at 50 μg/kg/day subcutaneously (s.c.) to detect apoptosis and the associated inflammatory response of liraglutide in Osteoarthritis; model induced by resection of anterior cruciate ligament (Adenylyl cyclase;L) and meniscus . Similarly, the rats in the Osteoarthritis; + liraglutide group received 50 μg/kg/day liraglutide dissolved in saline through subcutaneously (sc) administration. The same volume of saline was administered by injection to the Osteoarthritis; + saline group. The liraglutide or saline treatment lasted for 28 days. All these rats were sacrificed 28 days after injection of monoiodoacetate under anesthesia using 50 mg/kg sodium pentobarbital by intraperitoneal injection. Left knee joint specimens were obtained and the muscles around the knee joint quickly removed. The femoral condylar cartilage was removed by circular incision along the femoral edge of the articular capsule. Moreover, the femur and tibial fibula were cut off along the bone surface, the joint capsule was cut longitudinally, and the synovial tissue was separated. The cartilage specimens were then stored in liquid nitrogen until further study. Osteoarthritis; cartilage tissues were collected and triturated, and then lysed on ice for 30 min in lysis buffer containing sodium pyrophosphate and protease inhibitors (Sigma-Aldrich). The lysates were centrifuged at 14,000 g for 15 min and the supernatants were collected. Supernatants containing equal amounts of proteins were incubated with 2.5 mg Glucagon-like peptide-1;R or normal IgG antibodies overnight at 4 °C. The immunoprecipitates were then harvested using protein A/G agarose beads for 4 h at 4 °C. The beads were then washed and subjected to a 5-min boiling step for denaturation. The immunoprecipitates were subsequently analyzed using Western blot techniques.Total protein of cartilage tissues were extracted using a radio immunoprecipitation assay (Radio immunoprecipitation assay;) buffer containing sodium pyrophosphate and protease inhibitors. The protein concentrations were quantified using a bicinchoninic acid (Bicinchoninic acid;) reagent according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Harvested proteins or immunoprecipitates were separated using 10% sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (Standard deviation;S-PAGE) then transferred to polyvinylidene difluoride (PVDiclofenac;) membranes. After the membranes were incubated in blocking buffer at room temperature for 2 h, they were washed 3 times in tris-buffered saline and tween 20 (TBST) solution, 5 min each, and then incubated with primary antibodies overnight at 4 °C. The primary antibodies were diluted in blocking buffer at a ratio of 1: 1000. Following 3 washes with TBST, 5 min each, the membranes were incubated with an HRole-physical;-conjugated goat antirabbit IgG (1:3000) antibody for 1 h. The membranes were then washed 3 times with TBST, 5 min each and analyzed by enhanced chemiluminescence (ECL). Quartiles;uantification of absorbance of the blots was performed using densitometric scanning with a Fusion-FX7 system (Vilber Lourmat, Collégien, France) with mean optical density of the samples normalized to that of Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase;. The levels of Glucagon-like peptide-1;R were evaluated in each group using immunohistochemical (IHC) staining. Briefly, a portion of harvested cartilage tissues were used to prepare paraffin sections. After being blocked with 3% H2O2 for 10 min and 5% of bovine serum albumin (BSA) for 30 min, the sections were deparaffinized and rehydrated. Then, sections were incubated with rabbit antiGlucagon-like peptide-1;R (1:50) at 4 °C overnight and a secondary goat anti-rabbit antibody at 37 °C was used for 30 min. The sections were washed in a phosphate-buffered saline (Phosphate-bufered saline;) buffer and incubated in a 3, 3-diaminobenzidine (DAB) solution for 3 min. Hematoxylin was used to counterstain the nuclei. Images were captured usinga light microscope and analyzed using Image-Pro Plus 6.0 software (Media Cybernetics; Rockville, MD, United States.A), and the integral absorbance values were used to measure the levels of Glucagon-like peptide-1;R. At least three sections from each specimen were used to measure theexpression levels of Glucagon-like peptide-1;R. All data are presented as means ± standard deviation (Standard deviation;) for each group from at least three independent experiments. Statistical comparisons of the data between each group were conducted using one-way analysis of variance (Analysis of variance;) followed by Tukey’s test (GraphPad Prism). P values of less than 0.05 were considered statistically significant.Western blot analysis was used to quantify the expression of Glucagon-like peptide-1;R in the knee cartilage tissue of the Osteoarthritis; rats at various time-points after the induction of Osteoarthritis;. As shown in Fig. 1a, compared to control rats, Glucagon-like peptide-1;R expression decreased significantly in the cartilage of the Osteoarthritis; knees in the Osteoarthritis;-1, Osteoarthritis;5, Osteoarthritis;-10, Osteoarthritis;-20 and Osteoarthritis;-28 groups (P = 0.0015, P < 0.0001, P < 0.0001, P < 0.0001 and P < 0.0001, respectively). Notably, the Osteoarthritis;-20 group presented the lowest levels of Glucagon-like peptide-1;R expression. Moreover, the levels of Glucagon-like peptide-1;R in the Osteoarthritis;-28 group as demonstrated by IHC staining were found to be significantly downregulated compared with that in the control group (Fig. 1b; P = 0.0005). In this study, we conducted immunoprecipitation analysis to detect protein-protein interactions. As shown in Fig. 2a, we found that Glucagon-like peptide-1;R was implicated in the Protein kinase A;/Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B pathway. Moreover, significantly decreased expression of Protein kinase A; (Fig. 2b, P = 0.0692, P = 0.0001, P < 0.0001, P < 0.0001 and P < 0.0001, respectively), p-Protein kinase A; (Fig. 2b, P = 0.8553, P < 0.0001, P < 0.0001, P < 0.0001 and P < 0.0001, respectively), Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B (Fig. 2b, P = 0.9657, P = 0.4135, P = 0.0583, P = 0.0094 and P < 0.0001, respectively) and p-Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B (Fig. 2b, P = 0.9901, P = 2492, P < 0.0001, P < 0.0001 and P < 0.0001, respectively) was detected in the Osteoarthritis;1, Osteoarthritis;-5, Osteoarthritis;-10, Osteoarthritis;-20 and Osteoarthritis;-28 groups of the Osteoarthritis; rat model compared with the control group. A large number of studies have shown that inflammation plays an important role in the occurrence and development of Osteoarthritis;. Analogously, we used Western blot analysis to detect the altered expression of the inflammation-related proteins Tissue Necrosis Factor-alpha, interleukin;-6 and interleukin;-1β. As shown in Fig. 3, significantly increased expression of Tissue Necrosis Factor-alpha (P = 0.0009, P < 0.0001, P < 0.0001, P < 0.0001 and P < 0.0001, respectively), interleukin;-6 (P = 0.8112, P = 0.0144, P < 0.0001, P < 0.0001 and P < 0.0001, respectively) and interleukin;-1β (P = 0.2403, P = 0.0026, P < 0.0001, P < 0.0001 and P < 0.0001, respectively) was detected in Osteoarthritis;1, Osteoarthritis;-5, Osteoarthritis;-10, Osteoarthritis;-20, and Osteoarthritis;-28 groups of the Osteoarthritis; rat model in comparison with the control group. Previous studies have indicated that liraglutide was involved in weight loss . Thus, we detected the body weight of rats in the “Osteoarthritis;”, “Osteoarthritis; + saline” and “Osteoarthritis; + liraglutide”groups at 0 day, 7th day, 14th day, 21st day and 28th day after treatment with liraglutide or saline. As shown in Fig. 4a, compared with “Osteoarthritis;” group, the body weight of rats in “Osteoarthritis; + saline” had no significant change at 0 day (P = 0.9993), 7th day (P = 0.8538), 14th day (P = 0.5209), 21st day (P = 0.3575) and 28th day (P = 0.8092) after treatment with saline, which indicated that saline could not induce weight loss. The body weight of rats in “Osteoarthritis; + liraglutide” had no significant change when compared with “Osteoarthritis; + saline” group before treatment with liraglutide (P = 0.9310). However, compared with “Osteoarthritis; + saline” group, the body weight of rats in “Osteoarthritis; + liraglutide” was markedly decreased at 7th day (P = 0.0344), 14th day (P < 0.0001), 21st day (P < 0.0001) and 28th day (P < 0.0001) after treatment with liraglutide, which indicated that liraglutide could induce body loss. Western blot analysis was used to measure the expression of Glucagon-like peptide-1;R in the cartilage tissues of “Osteoarthritis;”, “Osteoarthritis; + saline” and “Osteoarthritis; + liraglutide” groups after the rats induced to develop Osteoarthritis; received 28-day treatment with liraglutide or saline. As shown in Fig. 4b, treatment with liraglutide (Osteoarthritis; + liraglutide group) exhibited significantly increased expression of Glucagon-like peptide-1;R in the cartilage tissues of the Osteoarthritis; knees compared with saline treatment (“Osteoarthritis; + saline”) (P < 0.0001). However, there was no statistical significance in Glucagon-like peptide-1;R expression between the “Osteoarthritis;” and the “Osteoarthritis; + saline” groups (Fig. 4b; P = 0.9956). These results were also demonstrated by immunohistochemical staining and quantified accordingly (Fig. 4c; P < 0.0001 Osteoarthritis; + liraglutide vs Osteoarthritis; + saline; P = 0.7597 Osteoarthritis; vs Osteoarthritis; + saline). Western blot analysis was also used to detect the expression of Protein kinase A;/Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B pathway components in the cartilage tissues of Osteoarthritis; knees after treatment with liraglutide or saline. As shown in Fig. 5, treatment with liraglutide (“Osteoarthritis; + liraglutide” group) significantly increased the expression of Protein kinase A; (P < 0.0001), p-Protein kinase A; (P < 0.0001), Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B (P < 0.0001) and p-Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B (P < 0.0001) in the cartilage tissues of Osteoarthritis; knees compared with treatment using saline (“Osteoarthritis; + saline”). However, there were no statistical differences in Protein kinase A; (P = 0.3573), p-Protein kinase A; (P = 0.2439), Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B (P = 0.7447) or p-Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B (P = 0.3302) expression levels between the “Osteoarthritis;” and “Osteoarthritis; + saline” groups.shown in Fig. 6, significantly decreased expression of TNFα (P < 0.0001), interleukin;-6 (P < 0.0001) and interleukin;-1β (P < 0.0001) was detected in the cartilage tissues of the “Osteoarthritis; + liraglutide” group compared with the “Osteoarthritis; + saline” group. However, there were no statistically significant differences in Tissue Necrosis Factor-alpha (P = 0.1696), interleukin;-6 (P = 0.9869) and interleukin;-1β (P = 0.9179) expression levels between the “Osteoarthritis;” and “Osteoarthritis; + saline” groups (Fig. 6). In the present study, we found that Glucagon-like peptide-1;R protein levels decreased significantly in a knee Osteoarthritis; rat model induced by monoiodoacetate, which was accompanied by the downregulation of the Protein kinase A;/Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B pathway and upregulation of the inflammation-related proteins Tissue Necrosis Factor-alpha, interleukin;-6 and interleukin;-1β. We also found that Glucagon-like peptide-1;R interacted with the Protein kinase A;/Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B pathway and that liraglutide could activate Protein kinase A;/Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B signals and inhibit the expression of inflammation-related proteins. Together these data indicate that liraglutide exhibits anti-inflammatory activity through the activation of the Protein kinase A;/Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B pathway in an Osteoarthritis; rat model. In addition, we also found that liraglutide could cause weight loss during treatment, which may be closely related to its mechanism in weight regulation. However, whether this weight loss had a bad effect on Osteoarthritis; rats remained to be further studied. Osteoarthritis; was once defined as a non-inflammatory arthropathy, but it is now well-recognized that there is a major inflammatory component to this disease. Previous studies indicated that inflammation plays an important role in the development of Osteoarthritis;, which is often closely related to low-grade synovitis . Moreover, cytokines produced in innate immune responses, such as TNFα, interleukin;-6 and interleukin;-1β are found at comparable levels in rheumatoid arthritis joint tissues, early Osteoarthritis; and end-stage disease synovium . Analogously, in our study, we also found increased levels of those cytokines in the cartilage tissues of our knee Osteoarthritis; rat model, suggesting that chondritis might also be implicated in the occurrence and development of Osteoarthritis;. Thus, blocking inflammatory pathways during the early stages of Osteoarthritis; could, at least in part, delay or impede the progress of the disease, which offers a reasonable basis for the exploitation of anti-arthritis drugs. For example Ran et al., suggested that schisandrin B might be a potential therapeutic agent in the treatment of Osteoarthritis; due to its anti-inflammatory effects via suppression of the nuclear factor-kappa B (Nuclear factor kappa-B;) and mitogenactivated protein kinase (Mitogen-activated protein kinases;) signal pathways . Inflammation is mediated by many upstream and downstream molecules. Among them, Glucagon-like peptide-1;/Glucagon-like peptide-1;R signals have been investigated as treatment targets for inflammation-related diseases, given their antiinflammatory functions. Glucagon-like peptide-1; is an incretin hormone, produced by L cells to regulate glucose and energy homeostasis via Glucagon-like peptide-1;R binding . Glucagon-like peptide-1;R is a Gprotein coupled receptor and is widely localized in astrocytes, neurons and endothelial cells . In the musculoskeletal system, Chen et al. found that Glucagon-like peptide-1;R was also expressed in chondrocytes and was associated with the degeneration of cartilage. Moreover, the authors also found decreased expression of Glucagon-like peptide-1;R in an Osteoarthritis; rat model, where Osteoarthritis; was induced by Adenylyl cyclase;L resection in a transected Adenylyl cyclase;L and medial menisci in the right knee joint . Similarly, we also found that the expression of Glucagon-like peptide-1;R was lower in knee cartilage tissues with Osteoarthritis; induced by the administration of monoiodoacetate compared with the control group, which suggests a potential and crucial role of Glucagon-like peptide-1;R in Osteoarthritis; development. Although, the molecular mechanisms responsible for the anti-inflammatory effects of Glucagon-like peptide-1;/Glucagon-like peptide-1;R signals are still under investigation, the Protein kinase A;/Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B pathway axis and associated active components may be major signals responsible for the anti-inflammatory effects of Glucagon-like peptide-1;/ Glucagon-like peptide-1;R . In cartilage tissues of the Osteoarthritis; knee, upregulation of inflammation-related proteins is accompanied by the downregulation of Glucagon-like peptide-1;R and Protein kinase A;/Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B pathways. In addition, we used protein immunoprecipitation to verify the interaction between Glucagon-like peptide-1;R and the Protein kinase A;/ Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B pathway. Thus, we hypothesized that Glucagon-like peptide-1;R might participate in the regulation of Protein kinase A;/Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B signals, which are likely to be involved in inflammatory processes. To test this hypothesis, liraglutide, an agonist of Glucagon-like peptide-1;/ Glucagon-like peptide-1;R, was used to upregulate Glucagon-like peptide-1;R signals in our Osteoarthritis; rat model. Surprisingly, we found that liraglutide could activate the Protein kinase A;/Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B pathway and inhibit inflammation. After Glucagon-like peptide-1; binding to Glucagon-like peptide-1;R, this complex could upregulate Cyclic adenosine monophosphate; thereby activating the Protein kinase A;/Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B pathway . Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B binds to Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B-binding protein (CBlood pressure;), a member of the family of histone acetyltransferases (Hyaluronic acid;Ts), and catalyzes histone acetylation, thereby switching chromatin from a closed to an open state . This change promotes the binding of RNA polymerase II and basal transcription factors to the open DNA to initiate transcription, involving anti-inflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin;-10 and dual specificity phosphatase 1 (DUnited States.P1) . One key action of interleukin;-10 is to transform macrophages of an M1 “inflammatory” phenotype that produce high levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines and low levels of antiinflammatory cytokines, to an M2b “regulatory” phenotype that produce low levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines and high levels of anti-inflammatory molecules . DUnited States.P1 restricts activation of the MyD88 signaling pathway by dephosphorylation and inactivation of p38 Mitogen-activated protein kinases;s and c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNKs), which can be induced by glucocorticoids . These data suggest that the activation of Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B signals plays an important role in the anti-inflammatory response, with Glucagon-like peptide-1;R being implicated in this process. This study provides mechanistic evidence to demonstrate the anti-inflammatory effects of Glucagon-like peptide-1;R activation induced by liraglutide in a monoiodoacetate-induced knee Osteoarthritis; rat model through the activation of the Protein kinase A;/ Computed radiography.ole-emotion;B pathway. This novel finding of the antiinflammatory effects of Glucagon-like peptide-1;R in the Osteoarthritis; knee provides promising and novel targets for the development of efficacious treatments for Osteoarthritis;.