Osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) is a prevalent joint disease worldwide characterized by the progressive destruction of articular cartilage, joint infammation, osteophytes, subchondral bone remodeling, joint efusion and pain . Te incidence of Osteoarthritis; has signifcantly increased due to the aging population and the growing number of obese individuals . Osteoarthritis; is a leading cause of disability, and knee pain is the major reason for repeated medical visits . Te mechanisms of Osteoarthritis; pain are complex and involve abnormalities of both the peripheral and central nervous systems . Continuing nociceptive stimulation from infammation in joints lowers the central sensitization . Te pathogenesis of Osteoarthritis; involves disruption of the delicate balance between repair and destruction of joint tissues due to mechanical stress and infammatory cytokines . Eforts in targeted toward knee osteoarthritis (KOsteoarthritis;) therapeutic strategies have largely focused on systemic drug interventions, the mainstay of which is the long-term use of nonsteroidal anti-infammatory drugs . But systemic drug interventions have also been reported to be related to a high incidence of cardiovascular events and gastrointestinal side efects . Arthroscopic knee surgery has little to no efect on pain relief, and the benefts are limited in time accompanied by adverse events such as deep venous thrombosis . Intra-articular injection is a local drug application without the risk of systemic side efects and has been preferred in the management of KOsteoarthritis; due to the advantages of drug localization, minimal invasiveness, rapid onset and signifcant pain relief. Current existing therapeutic agents are glucocorticoids, such as betamethasone and triamcinolone acetonide. However, long-term use of intra-articular injection of glucocorticoids could induce marked destructive cartilage changes . All these facts have motivated the search for more efcacious drugs with fewer side efects. Celastrol (Celastrol;), a pentacyclic triterpene extracted from the roots of Tripterygium wilfordii, has been widely used for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus and cancers . Previous related studies have shown that interleukin;-1β and TNF secretion can be blocked by celastrol in Osteoarthritis; animals due to its efect on the abolishment of immune cellular infltration and proliferation, preventing cartilage and bone damage . However, poor bioavailability owing to its poor water solubility (water solubility: 13.25±0.83 μg/mL at 37 °C) and systemic toxicity limits its clinical therapeutic properties . Hollow mesoporous silica nanoparticles (Hmass spectrometry;Ns) have proven to be promising nanoparticles in nanomedicine felds due to their advantages of great loading capability, multitudinous functionalization and good biocompatibility . Hmass spectrometry;Ns have shown great potential in terms of cargo loading capability and solubility because of their large specifc surface area and pore volume. Under normal physiological conditions, the pH of synovial fuid is usually alkali (pH 7.7); however, the pH of Osteoarthritis; synovial fuid can decrease to pH 6.0 due to the deposits of infammatory metabolic products in and around joint tissue . Chitosan is an amino-polysaccharide with advantages of biocompatibility and natural nontoxicity. Chitosan is often chosen as a gatekeeper due to its pH responsiveness and control the release of cargo drugs of nanoparticles in diferent pH environments . Te pH-sensitive nanocomplex that difuses in the joint cavity is concentrated released in the areas with severe infammation, which also means the chondrocytes in the acidic microenvironment. Tereby reducing the risk of adverse reactions caused by overdose. All these characteristics make Hmass spectrometry;Ns an appealing drug delivery carrier for celastrol to construct a new pHresponsive nanomedicine to inject via intra-articular. In this study, we assembled celastrol into Hmass spectrometry;Ns, utilizing chitosan (Chitosan;) as a coating to construct a nanomedicine (Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-Chitosan;, Chan-Mei Ho-Henriksson (corresponding author);C) with high delivery efciency. Our aim was to observe the efect of Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS on Osteoarthritis; treatment and regulation of the Nuclear factor kappa-B; signal pathway to fnd novel therapies for Osteoarthritis; and provide a reference for the application of poorly soluble drugs. Te preparation protocol for Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS is shown in Scheme 1. Solid silica nanoparticles (Solid SiO2;) were frst synthesized as a core via a modifed Stöber method  and a mesoporous silica shell structure was coated with Tetraethyl orthosilicate. using the surfactant Computed tomography;AB as a stabilizer. Te core was selectively etched out by Na2CO3 aqueous solution at a temperature of 80 °C to form a hollow structure. Te Computed tomography;AB was removed by hydrochloric acid–ethanol solution and the Hmass spectrometry;Ns were collected. Te diameter of the hollow core depended on the size of Solid SiO2;, which depended on the ratio of reagents and reaction time of the Solid SiO2; synthesis process . Ten Celastrol; was loaded in the Hmass spectrometry;Ns by free difusion. Finally, general practitioner;Tmass spectrometry;, which contains both epoxide ring reactive to amino groups of chitosan and also hydrolyzable methoxysilyl groups, reactive to hydroxyl groups of Hmass spectrometry;Ns, was chosen as a crosslinking agent to anchor Chitosan; onto Hmass spectrometry;Ns. Te morphologies of Hmass spectrometry;Ns and Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS were observed by transmission electron microscopy (TEM). In Fig. 1, the images show a solid sphere (Fig. 1a) and a homogeneous spherical shape (size: ~260 nm) with uniform large hollow cavities (size: ~170 nm) (Fig. 1b). After loaded with Celastrol; and modifcation of Chitosan;, the shell was thicker and obscured and Celastrol; was observed in the cavity (Fig. 1c). Te dynamic light scattering (DLeast squares;) particle size distribution results in Fig. 2a, b showed a slight increase after coating with Chitosan; (average 260.76 nm to 290.17 nm). Te N2 adsorption–desorption isotherm curves further manifest a classical Langmuir type IV isotherm with a type H2 hysteresis loop, indicating the existence of mesoporous structures of Hmass spectrometry;Ns (Fig. 2c). Te mesopores structure was obscured after surface modifcation and showed a signifcant pore-coating efect by Chitosan;. Te BET pore diameter of the Hmass spectrometry;Ns was determined to be approximately 2.4 nm (Fig. 2d) by nitrogen adsorption investigation, while the pore volume (Vpore) and specifc surface area (SBET) were 0.7668 cm3 /g and 1006.8 m2 /g, respectively. Te Vpore and SBET of Celastrol;@ Hmass spectrometry;N were drastically decreased to 0.2476 cm3 /g and 235.13 m2 /g after Celastrol;-loading. After modifcation with Chitosan;, the Vpore and SBET of Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS were further decreased to 0.1205 cm3 /g and 52.816 m2 /g. All these changes were results of the obstruction of pore with Chitosan;. Te zeta potentials of the Hmass spectrometry;Ns were measured to be −32.8±1.3 mV, suggesting that Hmass spectrometry;Ns has great dispersity. Te zeta potentials of Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns were −9.5±0.7 mV while the Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS had positively charged with zeta potentials of 19.9±0.7 mV possibly due to the positively charged Chitosan; modifcation. Low-angle X-ray difraction (XRD) patterns measurement showed that Hmass spectrometry;Ns exhibits a difraction peak at 2.1° (2θ) and a weak, broad shoulder peak at 3.9° (Fig. 3a), indicating the existence of wormhole mesostructures . Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns exhibit a same difraction peak but lower intensity. Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS exhibit no difraction peak due to the surface modifcation of Chitosan;. Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectra (Fig. 3b) showed four characteristic absorption peaks of Hmass spectrometry;Ns at the peaks at 1226 cm−1 and 1050 cm−1 corresponding to the asymmetric stretching vibrations of Si–O–Si; 793 cm−1 and 958 cm−1 corresponding to the symmetric stretching vibration of Si–O–Si and the stretching vibration of Si–OH, respectively. As a result of loading Celastrol; in the cavity, a new peak was detected at 1702 cm−1 corresponding to the vibrations of C=O. Te characteristic absorption peak of Chitosan; at 1650 and 1380 cm−1 indicated the successful coating of the CS layer . All of the above results indicate that the Celastrol; was successfully capped in the cavity with Chitosan;. Functional modifcation could provide protection for the loaded drug until the nanoparticles were delivered to the target. To evaluate the time stability, Chan-Mei Ho-Henriksson (corresponding author);C was tested with Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectra 3 months after the nanocomplex was synthesized. Te result showed that the main functional group, including Si–O–Si, Si–OH, and characteristic absorption peak of Chitosan; and Celastrol; were not changed during the time (Additional fle 1: Figure S2). Te temperature stability of Chan-Mei Ho-Henriksson (corresponding author);C was measured by Termogravimetric Analysis (TGA) and diferential scanning calorimetry (DSC) (Additional fle 1: Figure S3). Te TGA curve showed two decompositions stage of Chan-Mei Ho-Henriksson (corresponding author);C. Te frst decomposition was observed within 50–150 °C, with about 10% weight loss by the evaporation of water. Te second decomposition appeared within 200–450 °C with about 25% weight loss by decomposition of organic ingredients including Celastrol; and Chitosan;. Te DSC curve of Chan-Mei Ho-Henriksson (corresponding author);C was obtained at a heating rate of 30 °C/min ranged from room temperature to 800 °C under the air atmosphere. No characteristic melting peak of Celastrol; was found in the curve, indicating the Celastrol; in the cavity was in an amorphous state. Hollow spheres could load large amounts of drugs in the cavity. Te diference between the amount of Celastrol; initially employed and the content in the supernatant after stirring was defned as the loading content. Te loading content of Celastrol; in Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns was determined to be 28.2% although due to inevitable leakage during the process of surface modifcation, the content decreased to 24.3% in Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS. Te pores of Hmass spectrometry;Ns are much larger than the size of the drug molecules and provide sufcient space for drug free difusion of the drug into and out of the carrier. Te result of Celastrol; solubility (Fig. 4a) showed that crystalline Celastrol; had poor solubility of approximately 12.96% in pH=7.4 Phosphate-bufered saline;. Loading Celastrol; with Hmass spectrometry;Ns could largely improve the solubility of Celastrol; to 73.99%. Approximately 40% or more of new chemical entities are poorly soluble in water, hindering their clinical application . Celastrol is a red acicular crystal with poor water solubility. Disruption of the highly ordered crystalline structure is the rate determining step, which requires high energy . Improvements in drug dissolution can be obtained via the conversion of poorly dissolved crystalline drugs from the crystalline phase to the amorphous form when drugs are loaded into the Hmass spectrometry;Ns . Targeted controlled release property has been considered a signifcant characteristic of an expected carrier. Te pH-responsive release pattern was conducted in three diferent pH bufer solutions (pH=6.0, 6.8, 7.7) simulating physiological (pH=7.7) and diferent degrees of osteoarthritis conditions (pH=6.0, 6.8). In noncoated Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns, a rapid burst release was observed from 0 to 30 min, and then the curve reaches a plateau state (Fig. 4a). Approximately 70% of Celastrol; was released within 60 min from Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns with no signifcant diference at pH 6.0, 6.8 or 7.7 (71.2%, 73.7%, 73.9%). In contrast, in Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS burst release was not found after tirring for 150 min at pH 7.7 and only 21.7% of Celastrol; was released (Fig. 4c), indicating the great stability of nanoparticles in physiological environments. Te cumulative release amount of Celastrol; from Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS was higher at pH 6.0 (68.9%) than at pH 6.8 (63.5%) and pH 7.7 and the cumulative release curve in acidic environment was similar to that of uncoated nanoparticles. Degradation of the extracellular matrix (Extra-cellular matrix;) is a key step in the pathological process of Osteoarthritis;. During the process, the pH of the synovial fuid of osteoarthritic joints is acidic because of the infammatory reaction. Te insuffcient oxygen supply and increased metabolic activity switch toward metabolism towards glycolysis, leading to the accumulation of lactate . Te presence of NH2 groups on chains of CS provides the possibility for functional modifcation to Hmass spectrometry;Ns. Restricted to alkaline environments, the Chitosan; forms a gel-like structure that remains insoluble, forming a protection layer to reduce drug leakage. Osteoarthritis can provide acidic environments to protonate free NH2 groups and improve the water solubility of Chitosan;. Te CS layer swells, leading to the exposure of pore entrances and the release of drugs was triggered . Medical Chitosan; are intra-articular injected for clinical application, given their protective action on osteoarthritis by preventing type II collagen degradation . In the knee joint, Chitosan; could be degraded by lysozymes, which physiologically exist in human cartilage and the main degradation product is glucosamine, preventing type II collagen from degradation clinically . Te pH-responsive property and high biodegradability of Chitosan; make it an ideal gatekeeper for knee intra-articular injection. Tere were no pathological changes in the present study compared with Hmass spectrometry;Ns with Hmass spectrometry;Ns-Chitosan;, which may be because the concentration of Chitosan; was not high enough for clinical treatment. Te nanoparticle cell viability assay showed no signifcant cytotoxicity at relatively low concentration (50, 100, 200 μg/mL) of Hmass spectrometry;Ns and Hmass spectrometry;N-Chitosan; after incubation for 3 h and 24 h. Tere was no signifcance among each groups (Additional fle 1: Figure S4). After 24 h incubation, when the concentration of Hmass spectrometry;Ns and Hmass spectrometry;N-Chitosan; increased to 400 μg/mL, obvious cell cytotoxicity was observed (Fig. 5a). Tese results suggested that Hmass spectrometry;Ns and Hmass spectrometry;Ns-Chitosan; showed great biocompatibility. In Fig. 5b, the administration of Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-Chitosan; increases the cell viability of chondrocytes after stimulation by interleukin;-1β in pH 6.0 culture medium compared with pH 6.8 and pH 7.7, indicating the pH-responsive treatment of Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS. In Fig. 5c, the data of concentrationdependent therapeutic efects showed that at low concentration (4 μg/mL, approximately 1 μg/mL Celastrol; after calculated by the loading capacity of Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS) of Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS, there is no diference compared with Osteoarthritis; groups. At the concentration of 40 μg/mL, the cell viability was increased but no signifcant diference compared with 400 μg/mL group. A cell viability assay was applied to examine the therapeutic efect of Celastrol; and Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS (Fig. 5d). After stimulation with interleukin;-1β to simulate the Osteoarthritis; condition, compared with the control group without nanoparticle intervention, the cell viability was decreased. Treatment with simple Celastrol; slightly increased the cell viability, whereas notable growth was observed after treatment with Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS compared with Osteoarthritis; condition. Te data of the Hmass spectrometry;Ns and Hmass spectrometry;Ns-Chitosan; group showed no signifcant diference with the Osteoarthritis; condition. All these results demonstrated the pH-responsive property of Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS and that cell viability could be reversed by treatment with Celastrol; and Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;NsCS. Te data of the in vitro cell viability assay demonstrate an improvement in Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS compared with simple Celastrol;, indicating that the Hmass spectrometry;N loading and the Chitosan; coating provide an extraordinary bioavailability. In the laboratory, to prepare drugs with poor solubility, solvent dimethyl sulfoxide (Dmass spectrometry;O) was often chosen as a virtual ‘universal solvent’. But the cell permeabilizing efects of Dmass spectrometry;O may infuence the results. Hmass spectrometry;Ns are excellent candidates for loading traditional medicine facing the issue of their poor solubility. Te ability to improve bioavailability has been demonstrated in many drugs with poor solubilities such as resveratrol and albendazole . Te high volume of pores provides a large contact area to the vehicle solution, leading to better drug loading and release. Te high loading capacity of Hmass spectrometry;Ns could reduce potential cytotoxicity of Celastrol; owing to the rapid release of the drug. Te expression levels of infammatory factors and Matrix metalloproteinases;3, Matrix metalloproteinases;-13 in chondrocyte supernatant were evaluated via ELISA (Fig. 6). Te expression levels of interleukin;-1β, interleukin;-6, Tissue Necrosis Factor-alpha, Matrix metalloproteinases;-3, and Matrix metalloproteinases;-13 dramatically increased in the Osteoarthritis;, Hmass spectrometry;Ns, Hmass spectrometry;Ns-Chitosan; groups, with no signifcant diferences among the groups. In the simple Celastrol; group, the expression level was slightly decreased, and a further decrease was observed in the Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS group, revealing the good anti-infammatory efect of nanoparticle medicine. Te increase in infammatory factors probably due to the activation of pro-infammatory enzymes involved in the processing of infammatory factor precursor synthesis. Te present study showed that Infammatory factors, which are part of a vicious cycle in Osteoarthritis; progression, could be inhibited by Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS. Inhibition of interleukin;-1β NF-α can block the Osteoarthritis; occurrence and the development of the early and late course of Osteoarthritis;, as well as the infltration of immune cells and the destruction of cartilage structural integrity. Matrix metalloproteinases (Matrix metalloproteinases;s) are a broad family of secreted or transmembrane zinc-dependent endoproteinases that play a significant role in the degradation of Extra-cellular matrix; . Among them, Matrix metalloproteinases;-3 and Matrix metalloproteinases;-13 are powerful collagenolytic enzymes that show proteolytic activity on type II collagen, which is the most abundant protein component of cartilage and maintain morphology and function of cartilage . Stimulation by inflammatory reactions could induce the secretion of these enzymes from cartilage and synovial cells in the early stages of Osteoarthritis;. Overexpression of proteolytic enzymes triggered an increase in the breakdown products from the Extra-cellular matrix;, leading to the phagocytosis by the synovial cells. Such positive-feedback regulation may amplify the development of Osteoarthritis; . Using an integrated systems pharmacology method, it was predicted that the Matrix metalloproteinases;s family is the direct target of Celastrol; in rheumatoid arthritis, partially involved in the therapeutic effects in rheumatoid arthritis . The results of the present study indicated that Celastrol;@ Hmass spectrometry;Ns-Chitosan; provide an ideal treatment by downregulating the expression of Matrix metalloproteinases;-3 and Matrix metalloproteinases;-13, which could be responsible for the anti-inflammatory effect previously mentioned. Von Frey flaments are the gold standard way of evaluating sensory thresholds. Mechanical sensitivity is expressed by the paw withdrawal threshold (Paw withdrawal threshold;) upon pricking the hind limb with von Frey flaments. Te up-down method was used to estimate and modify thresholds . According to the results of the pain behavior test (Fig. 7), the Paw withdrawal threshold; decreased in the 1st week after Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; injection. In the 2nd week, drug intervention was conducted via intra-articular injection. After that, an increase in Paw withdrawal threshold; was observed in both the Celastrol; and Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS groups. A signifcant diference between the Celastrol; and Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS groups was demonstrated after the 4th week, showing the efect of inhibiting central sensitization. Pain is the major symptom of Osteoarthritis; and is involved in both peripheral nociceptive stimuli and central sensitization. Te acidic environment in Osteoarthritis; could activate the osteoclasts, leading to the attenuation of the subchondral plate. Te explosion of subchondral nerves because of the destruction of osteochondral integrity induces a continuous peripheral stimulation . In addition, sensory neurons are sensitive to H+, so nociceptive sensory neurons could be directly excited by H+-gated currents in the acidosis extracellular environment . Te acute infammatory response caused by the injection of Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; would be resolved by week 1 but could give rise to the sensitization of peripheral receptors. Increased stimulation input from peripheral nociceptors enhances the excitability of dorsal horn neurons at the dorsal horn, the so-called central sensitization, leading to the mechanical hypersensitivity . Celastrol; could relieve knee Osteoarthritis; pain by decreasing cytokines expression, inhibiting infammatory infltration and reducing peripheral stimulation, and interrupting the process of pain formation. magnetic resonance imaging; images of the knee joints (Fig. 8a) revealed that articular surface erosion (marked by arrow) and prominent joint efusion (marked by star) were present in the Osteoarthritis; group. Te images showed no obvious efect on osteoarthritis in the simple Celastrol; group, whereas a great improvement in articular surface erosion and joint efusion was observed in the Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS group, indicating extraordinary therapeutic efcacy. Te safranin O fast green staining result showed the same pathological changes as observed by magnetic resonance imaging; (Fig. 8b). Comparing with the saline group, the Osteoarthritis; group showed obvious vast cartilage loss, disorganized chondrocytes and structural destruction. Injection of simple Celastrol; could improve the changes, but the cartilage layer is thinner and shows fssures. A dramatic improvement in pathological changes, such as smooth cartilage surface, undulating tide line and cartilage thickness was observed in the Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS group. Intra-articular injection of monosodium iodoacetate is a commonly used method to build an Osteoarthritis; animal model to imitate human Osteoarthritis; cartilage and bone pathology . At 2 weeks post-injection, a high dosage of Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; (2 mg) could simulate the pathological characteristics of subchondral bone and subchondral trabecular bone, such as erosion of subchondral trabecular bone, destruction of articular cartilage, and exposure of subchondral bone, similar to end-stage human Osteoarthritis; joints . Subchondral bone stifening and the destruction of articular cartilage play a critical role in the progression of Osteoarthritis;. Te dynamic balance between osteoclasts and osteoblasts leads to disorganized cartilage and bone structure. Te image of the Osteoarthritis; group showed severe loss of joint cartilage and remodeling of subchondral bone. Celastrol;, forming an insoluble precipitate, can lower joint lubrication and induce the secretion of infammatory factors in cartilage. According to the magnetic resonance imaging; results, a profoundly reduced knee swelling and improvement in synovial infammation and cartilage integrity were demonstrated in the Celastrol;@ Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS group, suggesting a protective efect on the structure of cartilage and subchondral bone.Te protein expression levels of phosphorylated p65, phosphorylated Inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa-B kinase;β and phosphorylated Inhibitor of Nuclear factor kappa-B;;α were demonstrated in Fig. 9. Compared with the control group, the expression levels of phosphorylated p-65, phosphorylated Inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa-B kinase;β and phosphorylated Inhibitor of Nuclear factor kappa-B;;α were dramatically up-regulated in Osteoarthritis;, Hmass spectrometry;Ns, Hmass spectrometry;Ns-Chitosan; group. Simple Celastrol; could downregulate the expression level but is of limited efectiveness. In Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;NsCS group, the protein expression level was signifcantly downregulated suggesting the notable efect in inhibiting the expression level of the Nuclear factor kappa-B; signalling pathway in chondrocytes. Celastrol has various of anti-infammatory cellular targets and can signifcantly reduce the upregulated expression of Matrix metalloproteinases;s family and protect chondrocytes against the interleukin;-1β-induced infammatory response and apoptosis . Nuclear factor kappa-B; signalling pathway is a typical signalling pathway involved in the development of Osteoarthritis; pathobiology. Cartilage degradation can be induced by Nuclear factor kappa-B; transcription factors to enhance the secretion of various degradative enzymes such as Matrix metalloproteinases; and A disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs (A disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs;) which play a critical role in the degradation of Extra-cellular matrix; structural protein . Celastrol; attenuates Nuclear factor kappa-B; translocation to the nuclear, and pretreatment with Celastrol; reduces the matrix degradation induced by interleukin;-1β . Inhibitor of Nuclear factor kappa-B;;α phosphorylation by the Inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa-B kinase; complex can be inhibited by celastrol in diferent cell types, which is a key step in Nuclear factor kappa-B; activation, consistent with the present study . In summary, this study provided new insights into the therapeutic efects of intra-articular injection of celastrol-loaded, chitosan packaged hollow mesoporous silica nanoparticles against osteoarthritis by reducing cartilage damage and relieving infammation in vitro and in vivo. Hmass spectrometry;Ns could improve the solubility of Celastrol; and surface conjugation of Chitosan; gives the property of pH-response, enhancing the bioavailability of Celastrol;. Te nanoparticles have proven efective, pH-responsive and safe against osteoarthritis by animal behavior tests, histopathological observation and diagnostic imaging tests. In the future, hollow mesoporous silica nanoparticles should be considered potential candidate nanocarriers for the intra-articular injection of natural medicines, as they promote a reliable pH-responsibility and improvement insolubility. All chemicals and reagents were obtained commercially and were analytical grade. Hexadecyl trimethyl ammonium bromide (Computed tomography;AB), tetraethyl orthosilicate (Tetraethyl orthosilicate.), 3-glycidoxypropyltrimethoxysilane (general practitioner;Tmass spectrometry;), aqueous ammonia, sodium carbonate, ethanol, acetic acid and methyl alcohol were obtained from Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co, China. 0.2% trypsin was obtained from Hyclone, United States.A. Dulbecco’s modifed Eagle’s medium (DMEM) and 1% penicillin/streptomycin were obtained from Termo Fisher Scientifc, United States.A. Monosodium iodoacetate (Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;) was obtained from Aladdin Industrial Co, China. 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS) and 5% bovine serum albumin (BSA) were obtained from Jackson Immuno Research Inc. United States.A. Phosphorylated p65, p65, phosphorylated Inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa-B kinase;β, Inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa-B kinase;β, phosphorylated Inhibitor of Nuclear factor kappa-B;;α, Inhibitor of Nuclear factor kappa-B;;α primary antibodies were obtained from Cell Signaling Technology, United States.A. Collagenase, Celastrol (Celastrol;) and interleukin 1β (interleukin;-1β) were obtained from Sigma-Aldrich, United States.A. Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA), 10% paraformaldehyde, horseradish peroxidase (HRole-physical;)-conjugated secondary antibody, Cell Counting Kit-8 (Complete case;K-8), Radio immunoprecipitation assay; lysis bufer, Bicinchoninic acid; Protein Assay Kit and enhanced chemiluminescence (ECL) detection kit were obtained from Beyotime Institute of Biotechnology, China. Te “structural diference-based selective etching” method was employed to synthesize Hmass spectrometry;Ns with some modifcations. First, solid SiO2 nanoparticles (Solid SiO2;) were synthesized via the Stöber method. Ammonia aqueous (3.14 mL) was dissolved into an ethanol/water (74 mL/10 mL) mixture. Tetraethyl orthosilicate. was added to the mixture, which was stirred at 30 °C for 2 h. Solid SiO2; nanoparticles were obtained after centrifugation and then washed with ethanol and distilled water each for three times. Next, the core/shell nanoparticles were further synthesized. Te Solid SiO2; nanoparticles (500 mg) were dispersed in distilled water (100 mL) via ultrasonication for 20 min. A solution of aqueous Computed tomography;AB/water/ethanol/ammonia aqueous (0.75 mg/150 mL/150 mL/2.75 mL) was mixed with Solid SiO2; suspension. Computed tomography;AB was absorbed to the surface of Solid SiO2; after ultrasonic for 2 h, and then Tetraethyl orthosilicate. (1.5 mL) was added and continue to ultrasonicate. Te product (SiO2@Computed tomography;AB-SiO2) was obtained after centrifugation and sequentially rinsed with ethanol and water three times. Finally, we formed a hollow structure in the silica nanoparticles via a selective etching method. Te product obtained by the above procedure was dissolved in sodium carbonate (Na2CO3, 0.6 M, 50 mL) and stirred at 80 °C for 6 h. After centrifugation and rinsing, the crude product was then suspended in a mixture of methanol/ hydrochloric acid (1 g/180 mL/1 mL) and stirred at 80 °C for 6 h, repeated three times. Te fnal product (Hmass spectrometry;N) was obtained after centrifugation and rinsed with distilled water for three times. Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-Chitosan; were prepared according to the previous reports  with some modifcations. First, general practitioner;Tmass spectrometry; was employed to epoxy-functionalize the Hmass spectrometry;Ns. One hundred milligrams of Hmass spectrometry;Ns were dispersed in 5 mL toluene and the pH of the solution was adjusted to 3.5–4.5. Ten, 100 mg of general practitioner;Tmass spectrometry; was added to the mixture and refuxed for 6 h in a nitrogen atmosphere. Ten, the crude product (Hmass spectrometry;N-general practitioner;Tmass spectrometry;) was obtained after centrifugation, rinsed with toluene water three times and dried at 100 °C overnight. Next, Celastrol; was loaded into the Hmass spectrometry;N-general practitioner;Tmass spectrometry; by simple difusion. Dried Hmass spectrometry;N-general practitioner;Tmass spectrometry; was dispersed in 10 mL Celastrol;/ethanol solution (15 mg/mL) and stirred while shielded from direct sunlight at 25 °C for 24 h. Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;N-general practitioner;Tmass spectrometry; were collected by centrifugation, water washing, and freeze-drying. Finally, general practitioner;Tmass spectrometry; was reacted onto chitosan chains via the acid-catalyzed amino-oxirane addition reaction. Chitosan; was dispersed into 10 mL of acetic acid (10%, v/v) and stirred at 25 °C for 48 h. After adjusting the pH value of Chitosan;-acetic acid collosol to 5.0, freeze-dried Celastrol;@ Hmass spectrometry;N-general practitioner;Tmass spectrometry; was added and stirred for 12 h. Ten the pH value of the mixture solution was adjusted to 7.4 with Sodium hydroxide (NaOH, 1 M) and remain stirred for 2 h. Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS were collected by centrifugation, washed three times with phosphate-bufered saline (Phosphate-bufered saline;) at pH 7.4 for followed by freeze-drying. Te morphology of the samples was observed on a JEM2011 (JEOL Ltd., Japan) electron microscope at a working voltage of 200 kV. Te Fourier transform infrared spectrophotometric (FT-IR) spectra were determined on a Nicolet 6700 FT-IR spectrometric analyzer using KBr discs in the region of 2000–400 cm−1 . Te lowangle X-ray difraction (XRD) patterns were obtained by a D/max2550VB3+/PC (Rigaku Co., Japan) X-ray difractometer with Cu Kα radiation (λ=0.15418 nm). Te operation voltage and current were maintained at 40 kV and 40 mA. Te XRD patterns were recorded in the range of 0.5°–10° and the scan rate was 0.01°/s. Te nanoparticle sizes and zeta potentials were determined by a Malvern Zetasizer Nano-ZS90. Nitrogen adsorption–desorption experiments were carried out on a Micromeritics Tristar 3000 analyzer at 77 K to measure the porous structure. Te surface area, pore volume and pore size were obtained using the Brunauer–Emmett– Teller (BET) and Barrett–Joyner–Halenda (BJH) analyses, respectively. Te loading capacity of Celastrol; incorporated in Celastrol;@ Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS was measured by an ultraviolet spectrophotometer before and after the encapsulation of Celastrol; in EtOH. Te calibration curve was obtained from the average reading of diferent Celastrol; concentrations in the EtOH solution (λmax=424 nm, r=0.9989). Hmass spectrometry;Ns were dissolved in Celastrol;/EtOH solution followed by stirring for 24 h. Te supernatant liquor was collected after centrifugation of the obtained Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns. After fltration through a 0.45 mm membrane flter, the fltrate was determined with an ultraviolet spectrophotometer at 424 nm to measure the amount of Celastrol; loaded in Hmass spectrometry;Ns. Te same methods were used to measure the amount of Celastrol; leaked during the Chitosan;-capping process. Te Celastrol; loading capacity in Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns was calculated according to the following equation: Celastrol; loading capacity (%, w/w)=mass of Celastrol; loaded in Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns/mass of Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns×100%. Te same equation was applied to calculate the Celastrol; loading capacity in Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS. To evaluate the solubility, crystalline Celastrol; and Celastrol;@ Hmass spectrometry;Ns (equivalent Celastrol; amount,10 mg) were added to 50 mL pH=7.4 Phosphate-bufered saline;. 1 mL supernatant was collected at diferent time points and the concentration of Celastrol; was determined by ultraviolet spectrophotometer (λmax=424 nm). To determine Celastrol;-responsive release in diferent Phosphate-bufered saline; solutions (pH=6.0, 6.8, 7.7), the accurately weighted Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns and Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS were resuspended in pH 6.0 Phosphate-bufered saline;, pH 6.8 Phosphate-bufered saline; and pH 7.7 Phosphate-bufered saline; at room temperature. One milliliter of supernatant was collected at predetermined time points, and the amount of Celastrol; released was determined by an ultraviolet spectrophotometer (λmax=424 nm). Cartilage tissues of 14-day-old rats were harvested, cut into pieces and digested with trypsin (0.2%, Hyclone, United States.A) and collagenase (Sigma-Aldrich, United States.A). Isolated chondrocytes were cultured in Dulbecco’s modifed Eagle’s medium (DMEM, Termo Fisher Scientifc) supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS), 1% penicillin/streptomycin (Termo Fisher Scientifc, United States.A). Cell culture experiments were performed under a stable atmosphere at 37 °C, 5% CO2 and 100% humidity. Te culture medium was changed every 5 days. Chondrocytes at the P3 stage were used for subsequent assays. To produce a cellular osteoarthritis model, cells were plated in 6-well plates and cultured for 24 h and stimulated with interleukin 1β (interleukin;-1β, 10 ng/mL, Sigma-Aldrich, United States.A) for 1 h to simulate osteoarthritis. totoxic efects were measured with a Cell Counting Kit-8 (Complete case;K-8, Beyotime Institute of Biotechnology, China). Cells were incubated in complete medium containing diferent amounts of Hmass spectrometry;Ns and Hmass spectrometry;Ns-Chitosan; (from 0–400 μg/mL) for 24 h. Ten the medium was removed and the cells were washed with precooling Phosphate-bufered saline; for three times. Te Complete case;K-8 solution (10 μL/well) was added to the culture medium and incubated for another 1 h. To evaluate the nanoparticle treatment, cells were stimulated by interleukin;-1β for 1 h followed by incubation with complete medium with Celastrol;, Hmass spectrometry;Ns, Hmass spectrometry;Ns-Chitosan; and Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS at equivalent Celastrol; concentrations (10 μg/mL) for 24 h. Ten the medium was removed, and the cells were washed with precooled Phosphate-bufered saline; three times. Te Complete case;K-8 solution (10 μL/well) was added to the culture medium and incubated for another 1 h. Te absorbance value was recorded in a spectrophotometer at 450 nm. Each intervention was tested in triplicate. To evaluate the concentration-dependent therapeutic efects of Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-Chitosan;, chondrocyte was stimulated by interleukin;-1β for 1 h followed by incubation with 4, 40, 400 μg/ mL Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-Chitosan; dissolved in complete medium for 24 h. Ten Complete case;L-8 assay was applied as mentioned above. Te absorbance value was recorded in a spectrophotometer at 450 nm. Each intervention was tested in triplicate. Te same method was applied to evaluate the therapeutic efect of Celastrol;, Hmass spectrometry;Ns, Hmass spectrometry;Ns-Chitosan; and Celastrol;@ Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS in diferent pH culture medium which is preadjusted by 1 M HCl and 1 M NaOH with a pH detector followed by cell strainers (pH=6.0, 6.8, 7.7). After stimulated by interleukin;-1β for 1 h, the medium was removed and the cells were washed with precooled Phosphate-bufered saline;. Celastrol;, Hmass spectrometry;Ns, Hmass spectrometry;Ns-Chitosan; and Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS at equivalent Celastrol; concentrations (10 μg/mL) was dissolved in diferent pH culture medium and incubated for 24 h. Te cell viability of chondrocytes was measured with the previous mentioned method. Te secretion of interleukin;-1β, Tissue Necrosis Factor-alpha, Il-6 and Matrix metalloproteinases;-3, Matrix metalloproteinases;13 in chondrocyte supernatant were measured with specifc ELISA kits (R&D Systems, United States.A) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Six-week-old male Sprague–Dawley rats (220–240 g) were obtained from Shanghai SLAdenylyl cyclase; Laboratory Animal Co., Ltd. (China). All animal procedures were performed under the protocols approved by the Ethics Committee of Xinhua Hospital Afliated with Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine. Animal experiments were performed in accordance with the guidelines of the National Institute of Health Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals. Osteoarthritis was induced in the left knee by intraarticular injection of monosodium iodoacetate (Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;, 2 mg/50 µL) in sterile 0.9% normal saline, pH 7.4, after anaesthetization. Nonosteoarthritic rats were used as controls. Fifty microliters of intra-articular pharmacological interventions (saline, Celastrol;, Hmass spectrometry;Ns, Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS, Celastrol;@Hmass spectrometry;Ns-CS) were administered 2 weeks after Osteoarthritis; induction with equivalent Celastrol; concentrations (10 μg/mL), respectively (n=6). 6 weeks after the pharmacological interventions, rats were killed by asphyxiation in carbon dioxide and the knee joints, liver and kidney were harvested for analysis. All outcome measurements were carried out by an experimenter blinded to the randomized treatments. Assessment of pain behavior was evaluated by measuring the mechanical withdrawal threshold every week before and after Osteoarthritis; induction. Briefy, the rats were placed in a Plexiglas box with a screen platform and allowed to acclimate to the environment for 10 min. A series of calibrated von Frey monoflaments of various bending forces were applied in ascending order of bending force to the plantar surface of the hind paw and held for approximately 6–8 s. A positive response was defned as paw withdrawal occurring twice in the 10 applications. When negative responses occurred, a larger force monoflament was applied. Te mechanical withdrawal threshold was calculated according to the S.R. Chaplan’s protocol . For magnetic resonance imaging, the rats were anesthetized and Intra-articular injected knees were imaged by a Bruker Biospec 117/16 United States.R system, transmitreceive quadrature coil with the following Rheumatoid arthritis;Role-emotion;-magnetic resonance imaging; sequence: echo time=10 ms, repetition time=2500 ms, echo spacing=10 ms, slice thickness=0.5 mm, image size=384×256, feld of view=25.6×17.2 mm, number of excitation=1, fip angle=90°, bandwidth=37.879 kHz, and scan time=10 min 40 s.Rat knee joints were fxed in 10% paraformaldehyde for 24 h and decalcifed in 20% ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) solution for 2 months. Ten, the specimens were dehydrated, infltrated with parafn, and embedded in parafn wax. Subsequently, the specimens were sectioned into 5.0 μm sections along the sagittal plane and then stained with HE and Safranin O fast green. Histological changes were observed under a light microscope. To evaluate the cartilage damage, the modifed Osteoarthritis;RSI scoring system was used (n=5) .Chondrocyte protein was extracted with Radio immunoprecipitation assay; lysis bufer (Beyotime Institute of Biotechnology) with protease inhibitors on ice. Te extracted protein concentration was measured with a Bicinchoninic acid; Protein Assay Kit (Beyotime Institute of Biotechnology) using a microplate reader (Termo Multiskan FC, Termo Fisher Scientifc, United States.A). Ten the protein was loaded on Standard deviation;S-PAGE-denaturing gels followed by gel electrophoresis. Ten the membrane was blocked in 5% bovine serum albumin (BSA, Jackson Immuno Research Inc.) for 1 h at room temperature to block nonspecifc binding and incubated with the phosphorylated p65, p65, phosphorylated Inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa-B kinase;β, Inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa-B kinase;β, phosphorylated Inhibitor of Nuclear factor kappa-B;;α, Inhibitor of Nuclear factor kappa-B;;α primary antibodies (Cell Signaling Technology, United States.A) at a 1:1000 dilution overnight at 4 °C. Subsequently, after washing in Tris-bufered saline with Tween (TBST), the membrane was incubated in horseradish peroxidase (HRole-physical;)-conjugated secondary antibody diluted 1:1000 in 5% (w/v) BSA solution for 1 h at room temperature. Detection was performed using an enhanced chemiluminescence (ECL) detection kit (Beyotime Institute of Biotechnology) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. Te bands were analyzed using an imaging system (ChemiScope 6000 Exp, Clinx Science Instruments Co. China). Quartiles;uantifcation of the signal intensity for each band was measured with the ImageJ software. All data were analyzed using Prism software (v 7.0, GraphPad Prism Inc., United States.A). Pain behavior diferences between groups were analyzed using Kruskal–Wallis test. Te rest of the statistical comparisons were conducted by analysis of variance (Analysis of variance;) followed by Bonferroni post hoc test with Spropensity scores;S 25. All data are presented as the mean±Standard error;M. p values of <0.05 were considered statistically signifcant.