Knee osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) is the leading cause of global disability in the elderly and carries a tremendous health and economic burden . In Australia alone, Osteoarthritis;-related healthcare costs exceed $2.1 billion annually . With no cure or regulatory approved disease-modifying drugs, treatment for Osteoarthritis; is largely symptomatic . Surgical joint replacement is an efective procedure in the right candidate but is limited to those with end-stage joint disease, and up to 20% of patients have no clinically meaningful improvement . Clinical guidelines recommend exercise-therapy and weight-loss as frst-line treatments for knee Osteoarthritis; that target typical physical impairments (e.g., muscle weakness, excessive joint loads) . Exercise-therapy is supported by more than 50 randomised controlled trials (Randomised control trial; EQ 5 D: EuroQol-5D;s), yet its efect on pain and quality of life is only moderate . Weight loss of at least 5–10% body weight has been shown to improve Osteoarthritis;-related symptoms and function . However, typical dietary interventions are caloric restrictive, which can hinder compliance and long-term sustainability . A recent meta-analysis highlighted that, within two years, more than half of weight lost was regained, and by 5years, this fgure jumps to over 80% . Anti-infammatory diets provide an alternative to caloric restrictive approaches by targeting local and systematic infammation, both contributors to Osteoarthritis; disease onset, progression and symptom burden . In recent years, diets high in anti-infammatory properties have garnered signifcant interest in the prevention and management of chronic diseases . Typically, these diets are high in unrefned and minimally processed foods, dense in nutrients including fbre, monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fatty acids (Mono-unsaturated fatty acids;s/Poly-unsaturated fatty acids; s) and have been shown to signifcantly reduce infammation independent of weight loss . Consumption of foods rich in polyphenols such as fruits, vegetables, herbs, spices, and olive oil can decrease infammation via antioxidant and anti-infammatory properties which neutralise free radicals and other reactive oxygen species . Alternatively, ultra-processed foods with a high glycaemic load, such as refned carbohydrates (breads, grains, starchy vegetables, junk foods), can increase the production of free radicals and proinfammatory cytokines, leading to a pro-infammatory milieu . Omega-3 fatty acids are also a key nutrient within an anti-infammatory diet, with nuts, seeds and fsh being a rich source for omega-3 fatty acids . Diets rich in omega-3 fatty acids are crucial for achieving a more desirable omega-6 to omega-3 ratio in a healthy diet. In contrast omega-6 fatty acids, can be converted into arachidonic acid, contributing to precursors for proinfammatory eicosanoids . An elevated omega-6:omega-3 ratio mediates vascular damage and reduces anti-infammatory processes, likely exacerbating oxidative stress, which increases the risk and severity of chronic disease, including Osteoarthritis; . Small studies (i.e., <50 participants) that have included anti-infammatory diets as an intervention for knee Osteoarthritis; provide preliminary indications that they are feasible and efective at reducing symptoms and infammation associated with knee Osteoarthritis; over 12–16weeks . However, these studies relied upon regular and intensive face-to-face consultations. With the recent global pandemic (COVID-19), there have been calls for evaluations of the efectiveness of remotely delivered healthcare (i.e., telehealth), including dietary interventions . It is important to establish the feasibility of a telehealthdelivered anti-infammatory dietary intervention prior to undertaking a full-scale Randomised control trial; EQ 5 D: EuroQol-5D;. Te primary aim of this study was to determine the feasibility of a full-scale Randomised control trial; EQ 5 D: EuroQol-5D; to estimate the efectiveness of an anti-infammatory dietary intervention delivered via telehealth. Our secondary aim was to determine if a worthwhile efect was observed for improvements in selfreported knee symptoms, function, and quality of life. Tis single-arm feasibility trial was conducted at La Trobe University, Melbourne, Australia. Te trial was prospectively registered with the Australian New Zealand Clinical Trial Registry (Acromioclavicular;TRN12620000229976) and reporting adheres to the Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT) statement for pilot and feasibility studies . Ethical approval was gained from La Trobe University Human Ethics Committee (HEC19525) and all participants provided written informed consent prior to enrolment. All methods were carried out in accordance with relevant guideline and regulations. All patient-reported outcomes were completed via an online Research Electronic Data Capture (Role-emotion;DCap) platform. While we initially planned to randomise participants into one of two groups (anti-infammatory diet vs no-intervention control), and collect biochemical (i.e., serum infammatory markers), body composition (i.e., Dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scan) and physical performance outcomes (i.e., 30m walk test, 20s chair stand test), we modifed our study protocol prior to the frst enrolled participant due to government and university COVID-19 restrictions so that all outcomes were self-reported and completed remotely. We initially aimed to enrol 60 participants (n =30 antiinfammatory diet, n =30 control) based on previous feasibility trials evaluating health-professional guided interventions for musculoskeletal conditions  which was deemed sufcient to assess feasibility parameters. Due to COVID-19, our study was adapted to a single-arm feasibility study, in which we aimed to enrol 30 participants into the anti-infammatory diet intervention. Between February and April 2020, study information was distributed via an online newsletter to individuals on a registry who had completed an exercise-therapy program for Osteoarthritis; throughout Australia (i.e., Good life with osteoarthritis from Denmark; Australia) . Individuals contacted the research team to undergo eligibility screening via phone. Inclusion criteria were: (i) aged 40 to 85years; (ii) average knee pain of ≥4/10 on a numeric rating scale or maximum intensity of ≥5/10 in past 7days; (iii) ability to understand written and spoken English; (iv) willing to follow a 9-week anti-infammatory diet. Exclusion criteria were: (i) knee pain not primarily due to Osteoarthritis; (e.g., fbromyalgia, tumour, referred pain); (ii) already participating in a specifc diet (e.g., low carbohydrate high-fat, Paleo, Mediterranean); (iii) unstable weight (>5 kg weight change in past 3months). Te anti-infammatory diet intervention was administered by Accredited Practising Dietitians (APD) or by researchers who were specifcally trained by accredited dietitians. Standardised case report forms were used during each telehealth consultation to maximise standardisation of the dietary intervention. Te dietary intervention was delivered over 9-weeks, with telehealth consultations via Zoom platform (Zoom Video Communications, Inc., San Jose, Ca, North America, Version: 5.0.1) for all baseline consultations, with the option for either Zoom or telephone consultations (based on participant preference) at 3- and 6-weeks (Table 1). Baseline consultations were conducted over 45–90min depending on participant understanding of anti-infammatory diets and completion of food diaries. Follow-up consultations were conducted over 10–15min. Te baseline consultation consisted of education regarding the intervention and answering participant questions. Participants were encouraged to follow a diet containing minimal processed foods and higher amounts of “good” fats and wholefoods. Te wholefoods encouraged in moderate amounts were: lean meats, eggs and dairy; and those encouraged in higher amounts were: fsh, fruit, vegetables, nuts and seeds. “Good fats” included monounsaturated fats with a favourable omega-6:omega-3 ratio such as fsh, seeds and olive oil. Participants were requested to limit highly processed and refned foods such as refned carbohydrates (pasta, bread, rice), confectionary and processed meats. Participants were encouraged to consume a normocaloric diet and to eat to satiety. Information provided via telehealth was supplemented by a study booklet that was mailed to participants detailing all dietary advice and examples of food to consume and avoid (Additional fle 1). Participants were instructed not to partake in any other knee Osteoarthritis; intervention during the 9-week study period, other than stable medication doses. To guide education content, data from a validated multiple pass 24-h food recall (completed at baseline) , and a validated 3-day food diary (completed at 3-, 6- and 9-weeks), were used to provide feedback and discuss participant-specifc strategies to optimise adherence. Te multiple pass 24-h food recall and 3-day food diaries were analysed using FoodWorks10® (Xyris Software, Brisbane, QLD, Australia) incorporating the AUnited States.NUT 2013, AusBrands 2015 and AusFoods 2015 databases. Participants were given the option of either paper-based recording for the 3-day food diaries, or were taught to use a smartphone-based application, Easy Diet Diary. Easy Diet Diary is a commercial food diary and calorie counter that is developed and owned by Xyris Software, Brisbane, QLD, Australia). Macronutrient, micronutrient and food group analysis was exported from FoodWorks10®. Participant characteristics (e.g., age, sex, symptom duration, education, employment, income, physical activity, current diet) were collected at baseline. Symptom duration was answered by the question: “In the most afected knee, what is the duration of your knee pain?”. Symptom duration was then split into four categories from 0–6months to >3 years. Baseline diet was assessed with the multiple pass 24-h food recall . Te timepoints of all outcome measure collection are presented in Table 2. Feasibility was assessed according to previously published recommendations  and included the following parameters: (i) eligibility rate; (ii) recruitment rate; (iii) retention rate; iv) dietary adherence; v) 3-day food diary completion; vi) attendance at telehealth consults and vii) occurrence of adverse events. Proceeding to a full-scale Randomised control trial; EQ 5 D: EuroQol-5D; was considered feasible where parameters were comparable to previously published recommendations, or reasonable amendments could be applied to achieve these results in future trials. Dietary adherence was assessed via a 5-point Likert scale asking how often the dietary intervention was followed (never to every day), which was supplemented by completion of the 3-day food diary at each follow-up to assess specifc dietary intake. Adverse events were defned as those resulting in new limitations to normal daily activities, recreational- or work-related activities, or symptoms requiring medical care. We also assessed acceptability, accessibility, adherence, and treatment satisfaction during semi-structured nterviews following the intervention. Interviews were conducted by a single researcher and recorded via Zoom (Zoom Video Communications, Inc., San Jose, CA, North America, Version: 5.0.1). Responses to 20 openended questions (Additional File 2) covering themes such as: (i) acceptability of dietary intervention; (ii) accessibility of telehealth consultations; (iii) adherence to dietary intervention; (iv) treatment satisfaction; and (iv) comparison to exercise-based interventions. Te interviews were transcribed verbatim and explored using thematic analysis . Participant responses were then coded in an inductive manner. Post-analysis, the themes were verifed between two investigators (IC, MF). Knee symptoms were assessed using the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score;) . Te Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; is a 42-item patient-reported outcome measure consisting of fve subscales: Pain, Symptoms, Activities of Daily Living (Activities of daily living;), Function in Sport and Recreation (Sport/ Rec), and Quality of Life (Quality of life;). Participants rate each item on fve graded adjectival response options, then mean scores for each subscale are calculated and converted to be expressed as a score ranging from 0 to 100, with 100 representing no problems. Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score;4, the mean score of four of the fve subscales (all except Sport/Rec) will also be assessed as this has been used as a primary outcome in trials of knee Osteoarthritis; . Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; is a valid, reliable, and responsive measure during short-term and long-term follow-up for knee Osteoarthritis; . We also assessed self-reported knee pain during the previous 7days using a 100mm visual analogue scale (Visual analog score;) for both average knee pain and most severe knee pain. Health-related quality of life was assessed with the EuroQol-5D (European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions;), which comprises fve health domains (mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain and anxiety/ depression) as well as a Visual analog score; for overall health status from 0 (worst) to 100 (best) . Responses for the fve health domains were combined using established formula to provide an overall health-related quality of life index value . Change in analgesic medication use from baseline to 9-week follow-up was assessed with a 7-point Likert scale (much less to much more). Weight (kg) and height (cm) were self-reported by participants following advice regarding how to accurately assess these, ensuring consistent weighing times and conditions (e.g., before frst meal) and Body mass index; (kg.cm−2 ) was calculated. articipants who completed baseline and 9-week followup assessments (primary study endpoint) were included in the analysis, as per CONSORT recommendations . Feasibility outcomes were reported descriptively. Within-group change in secondary continuous outcomes were reported as mean (95% confdence interval (Confdence interval.)) change and evaluated with paired t-tests. For nonnormally distributed data, a Wilcoxon Signed Rank test assessed pre-post-intervention diferences. Treatment efects were potentially worthwhile if previously estimated minimal detectable change (Minimal detectable change) scores for each measure were contained within the 95% Confdence interval.. We used the macronutrient, micronutrient, and food group analysis data from FoodWorks10® to calculate changes in dietary intake over time. Normally distributed intake data (confrmed with Kolmogorov-Smirnov test) are reported as mean±standard deviation (Standard deviation.) and diferences evaluated with paired t-tests. Non-normally distributed intake data are reported as median (interquartile range (Interquartile range;)) and change overtime evaluated with Wilcoxon Signed Rank test. Statistical analyses were conducted in Stata (StataCorp, V.16.0) with α=0.05. During March and April 2020, 109 individuals responded to the study invitation. Seventy-three (67%) individuals were screened, with 48 (64%) of those meeting eligibility criteria. Of the eligible participants, 28 (58%) were enrolled. Twenty-two participants completed the entire 9-week dietary intervention and fnal follow-up assessments, with six withdrawals (drop-out rate 21%: n =2 could not follow intervention, n =2 due to personal reasons, n =1 due to health reasons and n =1 based on General Practitioner; recommendation) (Fig. 1). Te results of each aspect of feasibility are summarised in Table 3. Tere were two adverse events reported. One participant developed constipation, which resolved after further dietary advice given at the 3-week follow-up appointment, and a second participant had an injury to the knee following a fall, which the participant reported as unrelated to the diet. Of the 22 participants with 9-week follow-up data, 6 (27%) reported being adherent every day, 15 (68%) reported being adherent most of the time and 1 (4.5%) reported being adherent sometimes. Post-study interviews (n =14) revealed that participants were generally satisfed with the dietary intervention. Eighty-six percent reported that they were likely to continue following the diet after study completion with the remaining 14% stating they would likely continue with a modifed version of the diet. Example quotes from the themes of accessibility, acceptability and adherence are provided in Table 4 and Additional fle 3. Te 28 enrolled participants were mostly women (82%), mean age 66±8years, who were overweight (body mass index 30.6±4.6) (Table 5). All participants were Caucasian and most had pre-existing comorbidities (85%) and knee pain persisting for more than one year (67%). While overall energy and protein intake remained unchanged between baseline and week 9 (mean change −69.0kcal  and−8.1g , respectively), signifcant reductions were observed in total carbohydrate (−64.8g  (Fig. 2) and carbohydrate as a percent of total energy consumed (−13.3% ) (Additional fle 4). Total fat intake increased over the 9-week period (22.5g ) (Fig. 2) while saturated fat as a percent of total fat intake decreased (−5.7%, ), whereas Mono-unsaturated fatty acids;s and Poly-unsaturated fatty acids; s percentage intake increased (4.3% ) and (1.4% ), respectively (Additional fle 4). Te desired treatment efect for all Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; subscales and Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score;4 (improvement >8–10 points) was contained within the 95% Confdence interval. (Table 6). Te individual treatment responses for Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score;-Quality of life; and proportion with improvements greater than the Minimal detectable change appear in Fig. 3 (other subscales in Additional fle 5). Health-related Quality of life; also improved (European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions; health utility index mean 6.3, 95% Confdence interval. −0.44 to 12.7). On average, participants recorded a mean loss of body mass (−3.0kg, 95% Confdence interval. −3.6 to −2.3) and decreased Body mass index; (−1.0kg/m2 , 95% Confdence interval. −1.25 to −0.8). Seven participants (32%) reported using much less analgesic medication, 3 (14%) less, 10 (46%) the same amount, and 2 (9%) more (one of whom had an acute fare of pain due to a fall). Te results of this study suggest that a full-scale Randomised control trial; EQ 5 D: EuroQol-5D; designed to evaluate the efects of a telehealth delivered anti-infammatory dietary intervention is feasible. Fiftyeight percent of eligible participants enrolled, attendance at scheduled appointments and adherence to the intervention was excellent, and most (86%) participants were satisfed with the intervention expressing a desire to continue the diet beyond the study period. Additionally, worthwhile treatment efects were observed in participants completing the intervention for knee-related symptoms, function and Quality of life;. Te drop-out rate of 21% requires attention in the design of a full-scale Randomised control trial; EQ 5 D: EuroQol-5D;. Te signifcant interest to participate in this study by people with knee Osteoarthritis; as evidenced by the high recruitment rates, together with the promising changes in important patient-reported outcomes, supports progression to a full-scale Randomised control trial; EQ 5 D: EuroQol-5D;. Te rate of enrolment (58%) was much higher than previously reported rates for other pilot Randomised control trial; EQ 5 D: EuroQol-5D;s recommending progression to a full-scale Randomised control trial; EQ 5 D: EuroQol-5D; (35%) and was similar to other trials of dietary interventions . Our recruitment rate of 14 per month was primarily drawn from individuals responding to a study advert in a newsletter sent out to all patients with knee and hip Osteoarthritis; in an existing registry (n~2000) . Tis rate suggests that a full-scale Randomised control trial; EQ 5 D: EuroQol-5D; of approximately 150– 200 participants (estimated sample size to achieve 80% power based on a between-group diference of 10 points on the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; with a standard deviation of 15)  could be recruited over a 12–18month period . Avenues to increase the recruitment rate could include engaging with hospital, orthopaedic and physiotherapy clinics to directly notify existing patients of the study. Tis may be required with the addition of a control arm, which may mitigate the desire to participate. Alternative trial designs such as within-subject cross-over design could overcome this potential barrier to recruitment. Telehealth delivery of the dietary intervention was supported by this feasibility study with excellent attendance at telehealth appointments (99%) and remote completion of 3-day food diaries and other patient-reported outcomes (98%). E-mail and text-message reminders, together with accessibility and fexibility of scheduling, helped to facilitate the high attendance and completion rates, with telehealth delivery considered acceptable and similarly efective to in-person delivery in the qualitative interview feedback. Eighty-six percent of participants interviewed stated they were satisfed with the dietary intervention and would continue following the diet beyond the study period. Two (9%) participants reported adverse events – one related to constipation due to changed eating habits and the other an injury sustained unrelated to the diet. Te risk of constipation was discussed in the initial education session as it is a known adverse outcome for diets higher in protein and fat, however, more overt preventive strategies may need to be implemented in future trials. One such strategy to implement would be encouraging the intake of dietary fbres, which were not increased from baseline during the feasibility study. Tis has the dual beneft of potentially decreasing the adverse side efects of constipation and reducing the development of moderate and severe knee pain, which has been associated with low fbre intake . Participants reported being generally adherent to the anti-infammatory diet, 27% were adherent everyday and 68% were adherent most of the time. Tis selfreported adherence data was supported by evidence of macronutrient consumption changes. Carbohydrate and refned grain intake signifcantly decreased, while dietary fats, mostly in the form of Mono-unsaturated fatty acids;s and Poly-unsaturated fatty acids; s, signifcantly increased. While average protein intake decreased by approximately eight grams, this was not statistically signifcant, and remained above (>1.0 g/kg/ day) the recommended protein intake in older adults of 0.8g/kg/day . Participant feedback during qualitative interviews highlighted that the range of foods available ensured adequate satiety, with the provided example meal plans and recording of dietary intake aiding adherence. Furthermore, due to the experimental nature of the anti-infammatory diet, more frequent and rigid nutrition counselling could be provided to future participants to ensure maintenance of restricted carbohydrate intake, particularly during longer intervention periods, with evidence that more carbohydrates were consumed the longer participants were enrolled (Fig. 2). Participant retention is one aspect that requires attention in the design of a full-scale Randomised control trial; EQ 5 D: EuroQol-5D;. Strategies to improve a drop-out rate of 21% are needed, particularly as retention to longer-follow-ups may be more problematic. Although other trials have reported a similar dropout rate (20%) for a dietary intervention, this was over a 6-month follow-up period . Of the participants who withdrew, three were directly related to the study protocol and three were due to other personal matters unrelated to the diet. It is worth noting that the study was conducted in the middle of signifcant government-mandated COVID-19 restrictions in Australia, which may have contributed to a higher than usual drop-out rate. An initial face-to-face appointment prior to randomisation may help to educate prospective participants and allow sufcient time to detail the study requirements and the importance of continued follow-up to minimise dropout. Tis may coincide well with collection of objective data (e.g., infammatory markers, dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) body composition, functional performance) in a large-scale Randomised control trial; EQ 5 D: EuroQol-5D;, but would also increase travel/time requirements and potentially willingness to enrol. Te promising response in self-reported symptoms, function, Quality of life; and weight loss over a relatively short 9-week intervention period, is consistent with the response to a similar 12-week low-carbohydrate diet (<20 g frst 3weeks, then <40 g thereafter) in knee Osteoarthritis; . However, our study difered based on the dietary advice designed by our APD, which aimed to encourage anti-infammatory foods and discouraged proinfammatory foods, rather than having a prescriptive carbohydrate target. Our approach was more feasible for participants and the diet was able to better promote nutrient intake (e.g Omega-3 fatty acids, Mono-unsaturated fatty acids;s and Poly-unsaturated fatty acids; s) that have evidence to improve Osteoarthritis; symptoms . Importantly, a worthwhile within-group efect (exceeding Minimal detectable change) was contained within the 95% Confdence interval. for all Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; subscales and Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score;4 after the 9-week intervention – a longer intervention period or combining the dietary intervention with exercise may enhance the treatment efect . All participants had previously completed an Osteoarthritis; specifc exercise-therapy program (Good life with osteoarthritis from Denmark;) , yet despite this, were still experiencing ongoing pain. In qualitative interviews, participants expressed a desire to complete the diet and exercise interventions simultaneously to maximise outcomes. Previous trials have demonstrated a beneft of combining diet and exercise compared to diet or exercise alone on weight loss in overweight adults with knee Osteoarthritis;, but the diet was not anti-infammatory in nature . In the current study, participants lost an average of 3 kg over the 9-week intervention period, similar to weight loss on normocaloric anti-infammatory diets such as the Mediterranean diet . A limitation of the current study was that we did not determine acceptable thresholds of feasibility a priori; instead, we chose to explore these aspects to inform the design of future fully powered Randomised control trial; EQ 5 D: EuroQol-5D;s. Despite the promising outcomes reported by participants following the anti-infammatory diet, it is important that the results are not interpreted as defnitively supporting an anti-infammatory diet for knee Osteoarthritis; given the small sample size and lack of control group. We enrolled participants based on a symptomatic defnition of knee Osteoarthritis; and did not screen for joint structure (e.g., radiographic Osteoarthritis;). However, clinical criteria for the diagnosis of knee Osteoarthritis; does not rely on the presence of structural joint changes . Further limitations of our study design include the lack of diversity in participants enrolled and the relatively short follow-up period, which limited our ability to determine long-erm sustainability. All participants had previously completed the Good life with osteoarthritis from Denmark; program and were motivated to improve their knee and general health, which may not accurately represent individuals with knee Osteoarthritis; from the general population. Additionally, due to the inability to conduct face-to-face data collection during COVID-19 restrictions, our study relied on subjective data. Despite successfully pivoting the study in response to COVID19 restrictions, without blood samples to assess changes in infammatory markers, it was not possible to confrm whether the improvement in symptoms was mediated by changes in systematic infammation. We appreciate that the literature surrounding anti-infammatory properties of foods and diets is often conficting, and that further research is required to continue to objectively substantiate the anti-infammatory nature of certain foods and low-infammatory diets. We guided our anti-infammatory intervention based on the existing literature of lowinfammatory or anti-infammatory diets that have been shown to decrease systemic infammation and improve health outcomes . Future large-scale studies will be able to investigate drivers of symptomatic improvements in response to an anti-infammatory diet. Other measures that would normally be assessed objectively (e.g., height, weight) were self-reported and we were unable to assess changes in body composition (waist-height ratio, DXA) and functional performance (e.g., sit to stand, walk tests). A full-scale trial to evaluate the efectiveness of an antiinfammatory dietary intervention in knee Osteoarthritis; is feasible. Te likely worthwhile treatment efects and overwhelming positive feedback towards the telehealth delivered format highlights the potential for an anti-infammatory diet intervention delivered by telehealth to efectively reduce pain, improve function and quality of life and result in weight loss. Additional strategies to minimise drop-out rates are required.