Oxford uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty (Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty;) is a minimally invasive surgery that replaces the surface of the knee joint, and is an ideal treatment for isolated unicompartmental osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;). It is increasingly replacing total knee arthroplasty (Total knee arthroplasty) on account of less blood loss, shorter operation time, faster postoperative recovery, fewer complications, knee proprioception and bone stock preservation . Te indications for Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty; have also been expanded in recent years , and the high survival rates of the implants have been demonstrated . Based on their experience with fxed-bearing devices, Kozinn and Scott  proposed age greater than 60years, weight less than 180 pounds (82kg), high activity requirement, patellofemoral joint or lateral compartment degeneration, cartilage calcium deposition, preoperative fexion angle >90°, fexion contracture <5°, and angular knee deformity <15° as the indications for Oxford Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty;. On the other hand, Goodfellow et al.  established the indications for Oxford Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty; based on the anteromedial osteoarthritis (AMOsteoarthritis;) and spontaneous osteonecrosis of the knee (Spontaneous osteonecrosis of the knee;). Te ideal indications for AMOsteoarthritis; patients are medial compartment Osteoarthritis; with bone-on-bone wear, full thickness cartilage in the lateral compartment, and functionally normal anterior cruciate ligament, posterior cruciate ligament and medial collateral ligament. However, studies increasingly show that Oxford Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty; can also be performed for younger patients without these classic indications . In Caucasian populations, younger patients have demonstrated excellent functional outcomes after Oxford Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty; . However, the functional outcomes and implant survival are ambiguous for younger Asian patients with completely diferent lifestyles and physical activities . Te aim of this study was to assess the mid-term patient satisfaction, functional outcomes, implant survival and postoperative complications of Oxford Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty; in Asian patients aged ≤60years, and to determine the ideal indications for this procedure. A total of 252 consecutive patients with AMOsteoarthritis; that underwent medial Oxford Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty; surgery were retrospectively recruited between March 2013 and December 2016. Follow-up period refered to the time from the end of surgery to June 2021.All patients had been operated on by one surgical team. Te patients were divided into the younger (≤60years) and elderly (>60years) age groups. Te inclusion criteria were as follows: (1) primary severe AMOsteoarthritis; with at least K-L grade three, (2) functionally intact Acromioclavicular;L(Anterior Cruciate Ligament) and Medial Collateral Ligment;(Medial Collateral Ligment), (3) correctable varus deformity (varus <15°), (4) fexion deformity <15° and an active range of motion (at least 0–100°), (5) intact lateral compartment with no evidence of Osteoarthritis;, and (6) minimum 5 years of follow-up and availability of complete follow-up data. Patients with (1) bone groovelike changes on the lateral side of the patellofemoral joint (Qutebridge grade IV), (2) prior surgery on the same knee, and (3) rheumatoid arthritis or fxed varus deformity were excluded. Obesity, age, high activity or patellofemoral joint degeneration are not considered absolute contraindications. Tis study was approved by the institutional review committee of our hospital and informed consent was also obtained from all patients. Primary Oxford Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty;s were performed using the Oxford Uni-compartmental Phase III mobile-bearing prosthesis (Biomet Merck Ltd., South Wales, UK) by the same group of surgeons. After administering general or spinal anesthesia, the patient was laid in a supine position, and the right lower limb was routinely disinfected. A tourniquet was applied to the proximal thigh on the operative side. Pump up the tourniquet before cutting the skin,and loosen the tourniquet before suturing the surgical incison to stop bleeding. Te operative time refers to the time from cutting the skin to closing the wound,including two parts,prosthesis and wound suture. It takes about half an hour to install the prosthesis and half hour to close the wound. A tourniquet is only needed when installing a prosthesis,so the tourniquet time was far shorter than the operative time. Te knee joint was fexed to 90°, and an incision was made from the medial edge of the patella to 3cm below the joint line. Te surgery was performed as per the specifcations of the Oxford Microplasty instrumentation. All patients received an analgesia cocktail formulated in our hospital, along with postoperative intravenous medication, acupuncture analgesia etc. Te patients were instructed to walk within 2–6h post-operation, and were given routine anticoagulant and antibiotics the following day. Rehabilitation treatment was started on the frst day after surgery with walker-assisted movement, and full weight-bearing exercises were started 3 days later. Patients were instructed to go to the outpatient clinic two and 4 weeks after discharge, and then 3, 6, 12months and once a year postoperatively. Patient records were reviewed and the following data was collected: age, sex, operation side, body mass index (Body mass index;), American society of anesthesiologist(American society of anesthesiologist;)classifcation,osteoarthritis(Osteoarthritis;) grade and follow-up duration. Te preoperative and postoperative values were compared. In addition, the anesthesia type, hospital stay duration, blood loss volume, tourniquet time and operative time were also recorded. At the fnal follow-up, patient satisfaction was documented as disappointed, dissatisfed, satisfed or very satisfed. Preoperative and postoperative range of motion (Range of motion;), the Oxford knee score (Oxford knee score;), hospital for special surgery (Hospital for Special Surgery score;) knee score and Western Ontario and McMaster (Western Ontario McMaster Universities.) University osteoarthritis index score were used to evaluate the function of the knee joint at fnal follow-up. Postoperative complications such as patellar ligament injury, deep vein thrombosis, joint stifness, wound infection, delayed wound dehiscence, radiographic lucency and revision rate were recorded and compared. Te details of knee revision for Total knee arthroplasty and the 5-year survivorship of Oxford Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty; implants were also compared. Postoperative radiographs of both groups were reviewed to determine the diferences in implants. In the follow-up period,we analyzed the x-ray of each patients to fnd signs of complications,such as prosthesis position、size and dislocation, pathological radiolucent lines or lateral compartment Osteoarthritis; progression. It is worth noting that the anterior radiograph should directly face the tibial prothesis,and the lateral radiograph should directly face the femoral prosthesis. Only in this way can we correctly compare the postoperative complications between the two groups from the x-ray. All statistical analysis was performed using GraphPad Prism 7.0 (GraphPad Software, San Diego, United States.A) and SPosterior  stabilized;S 23.0 (SPosterior  stabilized;S Inc., Chicago, IL, United States.A). Continuous variables were reported as mean±standard deviation (Standard deviation.). Te inter-group diferences of variables conforming to normal distribution were compared by independent sample t-tests. Categorical variables (demographic data, anesthesia type, satisfaction grade and postoperative complications) were described using frequency distributions and percentages, and compared by Chi-square test or Fisher’s exact test. Log-rank test was used to compare the Kaplan-Meier survival curves with revision to total knee arthroplasty(Total knee arthroplasty)as the end point. All tests were two-sided and P-value <0.05 was considered statistically signifcant. Two hundred and ffty-two consecutive patients with a minimum 5-year follow-up were enrolled in this study, of which 96 were aged 60 years or younger, and 156 were over 60 years. Te mean follow-up in the younger and elderly groups was 73.6months (Standard deviation.4.1) and 74.7months (Standard deviation.6.2) respectively. Te demographic data of both groups are summarized in Table 1 and the clinical variables are listed in Table 2. Tere were no signifcant diferences between the two age groups in terms of anesthesia type, hospital stay volume, blood loss volume, tourniquet time or operative time (P<0.05). In addition, patients in both groups reported high satisfaction (P=0.805), and the overall patient satisfaction rate was almost 93% (Fig. 1). Oxford Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty; signifcantly improved the functional outcomes at follow-up compared to preoperative scores, and the postoperative Range of motion;(P=0.299), Oxford knee score;(P=0.117), Hospital for Special Surgery score;(P=0.357) and Western Ontario McMaster Universities. scores(P=0.151) were similar in both groups (P> 0.05) (Fig. 2). For the elderly patients, the Oxford knee score;, Hospital for Special Surgery score; and Western Ontario McMaster Universities. scores improved by an average of 16.1, 26.3 and 19.8 points relative to preoperative values, and the mean improvement in these scores among younger patients were 16.3, 26.2 and 20.0 respectively (Table 3). Tere were no signifcant diferences in the incidence rates of postoperative complications such as patellar ligament injury (1% vs 0%, P=0.381), deep vein thrombosis(2.1% vs 1.9%, P=1.000), wound infection (1% vs 1.3%, P=1.000), radiographic lucency (4.2% vs 1.9%, P=0.432) and revision rate (4.2% vs 3.8%, P=1.000) between the younger and elderly groups (Table 4). However, the signifcant diferences in terms of joint stifness(P=0.033) and delayed wound dehiscence (P=0.026)were found in both groups (Table 4). As shown in Table 5, Total knee arthroplasty was performed for 10 knees due to progression of lateral Osteoarthritis; (5 cases, 50%), persistent unexplained pain (3 cases, 30%) or aseptic loosening (2 cases, 20%). Furthermore, seven knees required posterior-stabilized primary Total knee arthroplasty implants, three knees required tibial stem and medial tibial augmentation was performed for one knee. Regardless of the reason, the mean time to Total knee arthroplasty  and 5-year survival rate of the implant  were similar in the younger and elderly age groups (Fig. 3). Furthermore, the 5-year implant survival rate was 97.2% (95% Confdence interval. 5.4–99.6) for the entire cohort (Fig. 4). Comparison of the radiographs of a 54-years-old patient and 69-yearsold patient indicated similar clinical outcomes at the 5-year follow-up (Fig. 5). The most signifcant fnding of our study was that patient satisfaction, functional outcomes, implant survival and postoperative complications were similar in the younger and elderly Osteoarthritis; patients at a minimum 5-year follow-up after Oxford Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty;. Terefore,younger patients might not be considered as an absolute contraindication to Oxford Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty;.Te overall patient satisfaction rate in our cohort was 93%, and was similar in both age groups. Several studies have reported high satisfaction in younger patients after Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty; . Dalury et al.  reported satisfactory results for patients aged 46–59years at mid-term followup. Mannan et al.  found that 97% of the patients aged 60years or less were pleased or very pleased after Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty; at minimum 10-year follow-up. Initial studies have shown that ideal candidates for Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty; are older than 60years of age . However, we observed signifcant improvement and satisfactory functional outcomes in both age groups. Mannan et al.  reviewed a consecutive series of 91 medial Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty;s performed in patients aged 60years or younger at minimum 10-year follow-up, and demonstrated good-to-excellent long-term patient outcomes with 92.9 and 87.8% implant survival at 10 years and 15 years respectively. Lee et al.  also reported similar post-Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty; outcome scores and implant survival in patients younger or older than 55years at minimum 10years follow-up. Hamilton et al.  evaluated 1000 Oxford Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty;s and did not fnd any signifcant diferences in the functional outcomes of patients aged younger and older than 60years of age at 10-year follow-up. Walker et al.  reviewed 118 knees following medial mobile bearing Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty; in patients aged 60 or younger and showed that the patients were able to resume normal physical activities, and nearly two-thirds could engage in high-level activities. Tompson et al.  reported that patients younger than 60 years appeared to have better results at 2-year follow-up, and Kleeblad et al.  showed that patients younger than 65 years were satisfed with the outcomes of Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty; and Total knee arthroplasty. Terefore, younger age is not a contraindication for Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty;. Given that squatting and sitting on the foor with high fexion angles are common daily activities in the Asian population, their post-operative functional requirements are greater compared to that of Western populations. Yoshida et al.  found that the 10-year implant survival rate in 1279 Japanese patients who underwent Oxford Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty;s was 95%. Lim et al.  likewise reported a 94% 10-year implant survival rate in Korean patients. Xue et al.  assessed 708 consecutive medial Oxford Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty;s in Chinese patients and found that the 5-year cumulative survival rate was 98.8% and the 10-year survival rate was 94.3%. Te clinical outcomes of the patients in our cohort were similar to that of Western patients, and satisfactory Range of motion; was achieved for daily activities. A recent review of twenty-six studies on 42,791 knees reported 95.3 and 91.3% 5-and 10-year pooled survival rates respectively after medial Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty; . Mohammad et al.  reported a 10-year survival of 93% and 15-year survival of 89% for 15 studies involving 8658 knees. Walker et al.  reported that medial Oxford Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty; ensured a survival rate of 92.4% at 10years and 88.6% at 15years with an excellent functional outcome. Xue et al.  also reported 98 and 94.3% 5-and 10-year cumulative survival rates in Chinese patients. Several studies have also confrmed that patient age is not a determinant of implant survival, which is consistent with the 96.9 and 97.4% survival rates observed for the younger and elderly patients respectively at the 5-year follow-up. Te Oxford mobilebearing implant was used for all patients, indicating that it is a suitable choice for Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty;. Te survival rate of Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty; implant is usually evaluated with Total knee arthroplasty revision as the endpoint. Te major reasons for the failure of Oxford Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty; are weight-bearing dislocation, aseptic loosening, lateral compartment osteoarthritis progression, and pain with no identifable etiology. Xue et al.  reported that the most common reason of revision in Chinese patients were dislocation and osteoarthritis of the lateral compartment. Liddle et al.  reported that aseptic loosening was the most common reason for revision after Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty;, and progression of arthritis and weight-bearing dislocation were almost exclusive to Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty;. Other studies have implicated lateral compartment osteoarthritis progression and pain as the most frequent causes of revision . van der List et al.  found that aseptic loosening lead early failure of mobile-bearing Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty;, whereas Osteoarthritis; progression lead to the failure of fxed-bearing Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty; in later years. Crawford et al.  also reported aseptic loosening as the most common early indication for revision of Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty;, and arthritic progression as the most common indication in middle and late stages. In our study, progression of lateral Osteoarthritis;, persistent unexplained pain and aseptic loosening were the most frequent causes of. implant failure and revision. Te outcome of surgery and revision rate is directly determined by the surgeon’s experience and profciency . In a review of 37,131 Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty;s conducted in England and Wales, Liddle et al.  found that surgical caseload was a determining factor of implant survival, and the revision rate between surgeons with the lowest and highest-caseload had a four-fold diference. Kozinn and Scott  recommended strict inclusion criteria for Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty;, whereas Goodfellow et al.  recommended Oxford Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty; for AMOsteoarthritis; and Spontaneous osteonecrosis of the knee;. In fact, with the increasing range of applications and excellent functional outcomes, the traditional indications of Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty; have been expanded in recent years . Tompson et al.  optimized the indications proposed by Kozinn and Scott based on the fndings that younger patients had better clinical outcomes, and obese patients had a low revision rate at short or medium-term follow-up. In a large case series, Hamilton et al.  reported more indications based on the occurrence and development stage of the disease as proposed by Goodfellow et al.  instead of the contraindications set forth by Kozinn and Scott. Te aim of this study was to discuss the mid-term patient satisfaction, functional outcomes, implant survival and postoperative complications between younger and elderly groups. On the one hand,there were no obvious diferences between the two groups in terms of patient satisfaction, functional outcomes and implant survival,which indicated that the indications for Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty; have been expanded. Tere are many reasons for the expansion of Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty;’s traditional indications. Among them,the surgeon’s experience and profciency are crucial,and the development of prostheses and devices also play an important role. With the advancement of surgical technology,the surgical outcomes will be better,and the complications will be less than before. On the other hand,there were obvious diferences in terms of postoperative complications including joint stifness and delayed wound dehiscence,which may be related to the diferent age attributes of the two groups. Te younger age group is presumed to have higher physical activity and the elderly age group is presumed to have low immunity.Oxford Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty; for AMOsteoarthritis; demonstrated favorable results in younger patients aged ≤60years at a minimum 5-year follow-up. Patient satisfaction, functional outcomes, implant survivorship or postoperative complications were largely similar in both age groups. Terefore,younger patients might not be considered as an absolute contraindication to Oxford Uni-compartmental knee arthroplasty;. Te sample size of the study was relatively small, and the younger patients accounted for only 38% of the total cases. Secondly, the relative mid-term follow-up could not fully explain the exact diference between the two groups. Tirdly,we did not consider that diferent age groups have diferent attributes,such as physical activity and immunity,which may bias the study results. Further studies on larger cohorts with samples randomization and long-term follow-up are required to improve the difference between age groups.