Osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) is a highly prevalent degenerative disease, resulting in cartilage degradation, joint effusion, swelling, and pain within the affected joint, as well as functional limitation . The knee Osteoarthritis; is often associated with moderate to severe disability and presents significant burden to the health care system . Age, sex, body mass index, and injuries such as meniscus and anterior cruciate ligament tears have been reported as factors influencing the onset of knee Osteoarthritis; . The purposes of knee Osteoarthritis; treatment are to relieve pain, delay disease progression, correct deformity, improve or restore joint function and improve life quality of patients . The evidence with respect to the efficacy of viscosupplementation with hyaluronic acid (Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range;) on Osteoarthritis; of the knee is inconclusive with some studies suggesting it as an effective treatment for mild to moderate knee Osteoarthritis;  while others claiming no difference between viscosupplementation with Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; and intra-articular placebo in management of knee Osteoarthritis; patients . Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; is a viscoelastic molecule with beneficial effects within the synovial fluid, including chondroprotective properties, lubrication and shock absorption, anti-inflammatory effects, proteoglycan synthesis and scaffolding, and subchondral protection . Hylan G-F 20 is a high molecular weight, cross-linked derivative of hyaluronan (extract of chicken comb) viscosupplementation. It is currently used in North America and Europe for the treatment of pain associated with knee Osteoarthritis; under the trade names Synvisc® and/or Synvisc One®. Synvisc® is administered as 3 doses of 2 ml Hylan G-F 20 weekly injection (16 mg hylan polymer) while Synvisc One® is administered as a single injection of 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 (48 mg hylan polymer). Previously, SOUND trial demonstrated that a single injection of 6 ml of Hylan GF 20 was safe and effective in providing symptomatic relief for up to 26 weeks in 253 European patients with primary knee Osteoarthritis;. There was a statistically significant estimated treatment difference (− 0.15, p = 0.047) between the treatment and the placebo groups in the primary efficacy endpoint Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A. This trial established a favorable risk/benefit profile of single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection in patients with symptomatic primary Osteoarthritis; of the knee . Prior to the SOUND study, a multi-center, randomized, double-blind controlled clinical trial was conducted to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 3 doses of 2 ml Hylan G-F 20 weekly injection, in 110 chronic idiopathic knee Osteoarthritis; patients. Results showed that 3 doses of 2 ml Hylan G-F 20 weekly injection significantly outperformed placebo for all outcomes measured using a visual analogue scale/score (Visual analog score;). Those outcomes included pain during weight-bearing movement, night pain, and pain during the most painful knee movement . In North America, a randomized, double-blind, 26- week, multi-center study was conducted to compare one (3 weeks) or two courses (6 weeks) of 2 ml Hylan G-F 20 weekly injection with sham injections in 120 knee Osteoarthritis; patients. This pivotal trial demonstrated the superiority of 2 ml Hylan G-F 20 weekly injection (one and two courses) over Intraarticular;-placebo in pain with motion (p < 0.05), as well as superiority of two courses of 3 doses of 2 ml Hylan G-F 20 weekly injection over the one course of Hylan G-F 20 injection. No systemic adverse events were reported throughout the study period . Although there have been many clinical trials conducted on the use of Hylan G-F 20 injection to date, none of them has been conducted in Chinese Osteoarthritis; patients . Due to the lack of clinical trials conducted on Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; in knee Osteoarthritis; patients in China, the cultural, environmental and sociopsychological difference between patients living in China and aboard, it is important to investigate the efficacy and safety of a single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection versus placebo in the Chinese population. For this purpose, we conducted a randomized multi-center, double-blind, placebocontrolled clinical trial in China (C-SOUND trial) in which a single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection was compared to placebo for the treatment of knee Osteoarthritis; over a period of 26 weeks. Ethics committee approvals (Institutional Review Board, IRB number: 2017PHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range;036–01) and written informed consents from patients were obtained. Included patients were those aged 40 to 80 years, with grade I to III Kellgren-Lawrence Osteoarthritis; of the knee, confirmed by standard X-ray up to 3 months before screening. Patients were required to meet the American College of Rheumatology (American College of Rheumatology;) criteria for knee Osteoarthritis;, had a Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (Western Ontario McMaster Universities.) A1 Numerical Rating Scale (Numeric rating scale;) score of between 4.0 and 8.0 at baseline, and failed to respond to nonpharmacologic therapy and/or simple analgesics. The American College of Rheumatology; criteria  are in line with Chinese Orthopedic Association Criteria . Patients were excluded if they had moderately severe or severe depression as indicated by Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (Patient Health Questionnaire-9;) total score of ≥15 or a score of > 0 on item # 9, severe anxiety, or severe insomnia as indicated by a score from four questionnaires (pain DETECT, Patient Health Questionnaire-9, Generalized Anxiety Disorder-7, and Insomnia Severity Index) at the screening visit . Patients who had prior knee surgery, or previous Intraarticular; treatment with corticosteroids, local anesthetic agents or viscosupplementation agents to the target knee were excluded. Patients with scores of contralateral knee pain (if present) greater than 3.0 Numeric rating scale;, or those with ipsilateral hip Osteoarthritis;, concomitant inflammatory disease, or other conditions that affected the joints were also excluded. Hylan G-F 20 is a sterile, nonpyrogenic, elastoviscous fluid containing hylan polysaccharide (single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection, 6-mL, 48 mg hylan polymer, Sanofi). Hylan is a cross-linked derivative of hyaluronan, a natural polysaccharide (glycosaminoglycan) responsible for the elastoviscosity of synovial fluid. The hydration fluid is isotonic physiological sodium chloride solution. Six milliliters of hylan G-F 20 and the placebo control (PBS, phosphate buffer saline, pH 7.2) syringes were labeled in accordance with the local regulatory specifications and requirements. The syringes were packaged into kits that appeared identical. A randomized, multi-center, double-blinded, placebocontrolled clinical trial was conducted in 21 centers across China. Randomization occurred only after patients provided written informed consent, completed all screening visit procedures, and met the requirements of designated inclusion and exclusion criteria. The study was performed in accordance with the principles of Good Clinical Practice guidelines (ICH Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range;RMONIStandard error;D GUIDELINE INTEGRheumatoid arthritis;TED ADDENDUM TO ICH E6(R1): GUIDELINE FOR GOOD CLINICAL PRheumatoid arthritis;CTI CE ICH E6(R2) ICH Consensus Guideline) . The study protocol was registered into the United States. clinical trial registry under NCT03190369. The randomization and treatment allocation were performed centrally by an interactive voice response system (Interactive voice response system;) with simple sequential allocation from blocked randomization schedule without stratifying factors (including site). The block size was 4 and the allocation ratio was 1:1. Patients and evaluators were blinded to the treatment received. The dose and regimen employed in this study, as well as that of United States./EU pivotal study (SYNV00704, SOUND study), were decided based on a pilot study (SYNV00502) conducted by SANOFI . The technique for injection followed a standardized method of aseptic no touch technique. The primary endpoint of this trial included change from baseline in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A1 (pain sub-scale, measured while walking) over 26 weeks for single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection when compared to placebo. The sample size calculations were based on the primary efficacy variable of Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A1 over 26 weeks, with the following assumptions: 0.75 mean difference in treatment effect of single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection on the change from baseline in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A1 over 26 weeks, compared to placebo and a t-test at a 2-sided 5% significance level with 90% power. Secondary outcomes included change in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A1 measured as a 7-day average, Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A, patient global assessment (Patient global assessment;), and clinical observer global assessment (Clinical observer global assessment;) over 26 weeks. Additionally, percentages of positive responders (clinically important reductions in pain) over 26 weeks, defined as a ≥ 2-point improvement from baseline in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A1 Numeric rating scale;, was measured as a secondary outcome. Generalized estimating equation (Generalized estimating eq.;) modeling was used for the analysis of Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A 1 responders (≥2 point improvement on Numeric rating scale; Scale). Each responder (yes/no) endpoint evaluated at multiple post-baseline visits was analyzed using Generalized estimating eq.; for binary outcomes. Safety outcomes were assessed through evaluation of incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAdverse event;) and changes in standard safety parameters over the entire study period. Upon entering the trial, patients were asked to provide informed consent, and were then asked to enter a medication washout period (those with a half-life > 5 h) of up to 14 days. Following wash-out, patients were reassessed for eligibility, and received study treatment. Patients were asked to report their daily pain using a patient diary. Follow-up visits was performed at weeks 1, 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, and 26. Changes of quality of life from baseline to weeks 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, and 26 were assessed by European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions (European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions;). On an as-needed basis in a tiered manner, the following therapies were allowed as rescue medication in case of unbearable pain (eg, worsening of Osteoarthritis; symptoms in the target knee) during the study period: 1) Acetaminophen (500 mg, up to 3000 mg/day), 2) Acetaminophen (325 mg)/oxycodone (5 mg, up to 1 tablet 4 times daily), or 3) Acetaminophen (325 mg)/tramadol (37.5 mg, up to 1 tablet 6 times daily). However, rescue medication was not to be taken within 48 h prior to any study visit. Statistical reports were generated using SAS version 9.4 (SAS Institute, Cary, NC, United States.A). Descriptive statistics of baseline characteristics was provided for continuous data using mean, standard deviation (Standard deviation.), median, minimum, and maximum for each treatment group. Categorical and ordinal data were summarized using the number and percentage of patients in each treatment group. The efficacy analysis was performed on the modified intentto-treat (Modified intent-to-treat;) population containing all randomized and treated patients as randomized. Two patients in the single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection group were excluded from Modified intent-to-treat; because they didn’t receive any treatment. The statistical test for the primary efficacy endpoint, change from baseline in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A1 over 26 weeks for single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection compared to placebo, was 2-sided at α level of 0.05, based on a repeatedmeasures analysis of covariance (Analysis of covariance;) that was used to test for differences in treatment efficacy. Same test was used for the analysis of secondary effectiveness outcomes, change from baseline in 7-day average Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A1, Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A, Patient global assessment;, and Clinical observer global assessment; over 26 weeks. For the analysis of Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A1 responders, Generalized estimating eq.; model was fitted to the responder data and included terms for baseline measure, site, visit, treatment group and a visit-by-treatment group interaction. Hypothesis testing was performed using least squares means based on the linear predictor of the model. All safety analyses were performed on the safety population. All Adverse event;s (including serious Adverse event;s and Adverse event;s with prespecified monitoring) were associated with primary system-organ-class (System-organ-class;) using the version of Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRheumatoid arthritis; version 21.1). The sample size (n) and percentage (%) of patients experiencing an Adverse event; were presented. Adverse event; incidence tables were presented by System-organ-class; and PT (preferred term), then were sorted in alphabetical order for each treatment group. Multiple occurrences of the same event in the same patient were counted only once in the tables within a treatment phase. The denominator for computation of percentages was the safety population within each treatment group; no imputation was performed for missing safety data. Across all sites, 524 patients were screened, of whom 84 patients (16.0%) failed the screening. The reasons for failure were inability to meet inclusion and exclusion criteria such as missing information on the Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A1 Numeric rating scale; score, modified Kellgren-Lawrence Numerical Grading System of Grade I-III, signature of informed consent format, pain DETECT Questionnaire score > 18 and laboratory examination of hepatic function as well as unwilling to continue due to personal reasons. The remaining 440 patients were enrolled and randomized. Of 440 patients who were randomized, 2 patients (0.9%) in the single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection group were not treated, due to poor compliance to protocol. Among 438 patients included in the Modified intent-to-treat; population, six patients (2.7%) from the single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection group and 1 patient (0.5%) from the placebo group discontinued due to poor compliance to protocol or other reasons. Two hundred and twelve patients (96.4%) in the single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection group and 219 patients (99.5%) in the placebo group completed the 26- week follow-up period. Efficacy and safety analyses were performed on the safety population, which included 218 patients in the single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection group and 220 patients in the placebo group (Fig. 1). Demographic characteristics of patients in the randomized population collected at baseline are presented in Table 1. Demographic and disease characteristics in the randomized population were generally balanced across the two treatment arms. Of the 440 randomized patients, 98 (22.3%) of them were male and 342 (77.7%) were female. The mean age of the randomized patients was 61.5 years. A total of 269 patients were > 60 years of age. All patients were of Asian ethnicity. The mean Body mass index; was 25.48 (3.18) kg/m2 . Medical and surgical history of patients were generally balanced between the treatment groups. Of the 440 randomized patients, 219 patients (49.8%) had Osteoarthritis; in the left knee, while the other 221 patients (50.2%) had Osteoarthritis; in the right knee. A total of 55 patients (12.5%) were Grade I, of which 31 patients were in the single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection group and 24 patients were in the placebo group. A total of 221 patients (50.2%) had a Kellgren-Lawrence Numerical Grade of II at screening or baseline, with 105 from (in) the single 6 ml Hylan GF 20 injection group and 116 patients from (in) the placebo group. Eight-four (38.2%) and 80 (36.4%) patients in the single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection and placebo groups were Grade III respectively. Baseline values with mean  for Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A1 score were similar between single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection groups  and placebo . Both single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection and placebo induced a remarkable reduction in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A1 score at all visits and across the 26 weeks. The change of least squares (Least squares;) mean (standard error ) in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A1 from baseline over 26 weeks was − 2.146 ± 0.108 and − 2.271 ± 0.110 in the 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 and placebo groups, respectively. However, there was no difference between the two groups (p = 0.36, Table 2). Figure 2 shows the least square mean value for Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A1 for all patients who had measurements at baseline and at least one post-baseline value. Both the treatment and placebo arm demonstrated clinical meaningful improvements in the primary endpoint of Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A1 scores from baseline over 26 weeks (− 40.5% in the treatment arm vs. -43.7% in the placebo arm) as the OMERheumatoid arthritis;CT-Osteoarthritis;RSI defined responder as 20% improvement in pain . Clinically important reductions in pain at 26 weeks were reported in 67.0% of those treated with single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection and 68.2% of those treated with placebo. Also, the difference between the Least squares; mean of the change from baseline in 7-day average Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A1 in single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection versus placebo groups over 26 weeks was not statistically significant (difference: 0.099, 95% Confdence interval.: − 0.166 to 0.364, p = 0.4637, Table 3). Analyses of the changes from baseline over 26 weeks in Patient global assessment; and Clinical observer global assessment; also showed no statistical difference between the two treatment groups (Tables 4 and 5). The number of Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A1 responders over 26 weeks was not different between single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection-treated patients (146 patients) and the placebo (150 patients, estimate of common odds ratio: 0.83, 95% Confdence interval.: 0.58 to 1.19, p = 0.68). This trend was consistent for all the visits. There were consistently more responders than non-responders in both treatment groups. The amount and days of permitted pain rescue medication use at each visit were generally balanced between the two treatment groups. There was no difference in quality-of-life measures between the two treatment groups at each visit. All patients (218 and 220 in single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection group and placebo, respectively) received the full injection volume of 6 ml. Fifty-four patients (24.8%) from the single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection group and 58 patients (26.4%) from the placebo group had fluid effusion or withdrawal. Overall, frequency of Treatment-emergent adverse events; was comparable between the two treatment groups (6 ml hylan G-F 20, n = 134, 61.5%; placebo, n = 142, 64.5%). There were 16 patients (7.34%) in the single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection group and 16 patients (7.27%) in the placebo group with Treatment-emergent adverse events; considered to be related to the injections. The most frequently reported Treatment-emergent adverse events; related to injection were musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders, of which arthralgia (7 patients  in each group) and peripheral joint swelling (8 patients  and 2 patients  in the single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection and the placebo group respectively) were most reported (Table 6). There were no serious Treatment-emergent adverse events;, Treatment-emergent adverse events; leading to death, or Treatment-emergent adverse events; leading to treatment discontinuation over the course of the study The results of this present study (C-SOUND trial) demonstrated that when compared with Intraarticular; placebo, single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection did not show superiority in providing symptomatic pain relief over a period of 26 weeks. However, treatment of a single Intraarticular; administration of single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection provided patients with pain relief in the targeted knee Osteoarthritis; when compared to baseline. Both single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection and placebo group were well tolerated in patients with primary knee Osteoarthritis;. The SOUND trial, which was previously conducted in the European centers was very similar to the current CSOUND study with respect to the design, objectives, and number of enrolled participants. Both the SOUND and C-SOUND trials were double-blind, multi-center, placebo-controlled randomized controlled trials (Randomised control trial; EQ 5 D: EuroQol-5D;s) that aimed to compare the effect of a single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection to that of 6 ml Intraarticular;-placebo. Additionally, both trials had similar primary efficacy endpoints, with C-SOUND using Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A1 and SOUND using Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A to measure change from baseline in pain scores over 26 weeks. In terms of efficacy, the SOUND trial showed significant reductions in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A scores from baseline to 26 weeks in both the treatment (− 37.8%) and placebo arms (− 29.3%), with a significantly higher reduction in the treatment arm compared to the placebo (p = 0.047) . Although both the SOUND and C-SOUND trials were similar in study design, and both showed that single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection was efficacious in reducing pain scores from baseline to evaluation time of study endpoint, C-SOUND trial showed a more prominent placebo effect that overshadowed the main treatment effect causing the results not to show statistical significance for superiority of single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection when compared to Intraarticular; placebo. The superiority of three 2-ml Hylan G-F 20 injection versus Intraarticular;-placebo has also been demonstrated in three Randomised control trial; EQ 5 D: EuroQol-5D;s  prior to the C-SOUND study. A multicenter, randomized, double-blind controlled clinical trial was conducted to compare the efficacy and safety of 3 doses of 2 ml Hylan G-F 20 weekly injection, versus Intraarticular;saline in 110 European patients of chronic idiopathic knee Osteoarthritis; . Results of this trial showed that 3 doses of 2 ml Hylan G-F 20 weekly injection significantly outperformed placebo for all outcomes measured using a Visual analog score;, including pain during weight-bearing movement and pain during the most painful knee movement. In another randomized double blind multi-center clinical trial in North America , one (3 weeks) or two courses (6 weeks) of three weekly Intraarticular; injections of 3 doses of 2 ml Hylan G-F 20 weekly injection compared to control injections in 120 knee Osteoarthritis; patients, demonstrated that patients in the 3 doses of 2 ml Hylan G-F 20 weekly injection group outperformed the placebo arm in terms of reaching the efficacy endpoints, including mean change in weight-bearing pain, night pain, improvement of knee movement, and overall assessment in both patient-assessed and evaluator-assessed outcome measures (Visual analog score;) at the 12-week endpoint. Hylan G-F 20’s superiority compared to various other comparator treatments such as Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s , conventional treatment , intra-articular cortico-steroids , and other viscosupplementation therapies  has also been demonstrated in several other Randomised control trial; EQ 5 D: EuroQol-5D;s for the management of pain associated with knee Osteoarthritis;. Data on the efficacy of Hylan G-F 20 from these Randomised control trial; EQ 5 D: EuroQol-5D;s are further supported by the results of various real-world evidence studies , systematic reviews and metaanalyses . The new evidence complemented and reinforced majority of evidence supporting the performances. Notably, the emergence of two recent studies on United States. claims databases of over 4.7 million patients (collectively) performed in parallel to the C-SOUND trial provided further insight on the performances of 3 doses of 2 ml Hylan G-F 20 weekly injection, indicating a positive effect in delaying the time to knee arthroplasty  and reducing patient need for opioids and Intraarticular;corticosteroids , as well as adverse events associated with these treatments. While the treatment effects from the baseline in the single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection arm (Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A1 scores: − 40.5%) in the C-SOUND trial were consistent with those observed in the SOUND trial (Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A scores:-37.8%), the reduction in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A scores from baseline to 26 weeks in the placebo arm (change in Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A1 scores: − 43.7%) of C-SOUND was substantially more pronounced compared to the SOUND trial (− 29.3%). The differences in patient characteristics and cultural environment may have allowed for patients living in China versus outside China to experience an overshadowing placebo effect which is higher than that observed in the European patients. Previous studies have shown that the administration of an Intraarticular; placebo injection has yielded a statistically and clinically meaningful improvement in patients up to 6 months after the injection in patients with knee Osteoarthritis; . Some studies have associated the prominent placebo effect, partly to the dilution of inflammatory mediators by the Intraarticular; saline within the knee, providing relief of perceived pain and subjective stiffness . Others, hypothesize this to stem from a complex interplay of sociopsychological factors, including the therapeutic ritual of receiving a perceived treatment, the interaction between patient and health care provider, the clinician’s confidence in the treatment, the patient’s personality effects, the method and frequency of substance administration, and the expectation for improvement by the patient . The true biological and disease-modifying effect of placebo varies based on the disease and organ system but largely remains unknown . Furthermore, meta-analysis conducted by Bannuru et al. and Altman et al. demonstrated that Intraarticular; saline solution injections may not be without therapeutic effect but are active agents as their effect size of Intraarticular; saline is comparable with oral Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s. As a result, using Intraarticular; saline solution as a control in a randomized control trial might diminish the effects of Intraarticular; Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; injections. Future clinical trials should also compare Intraarticular; Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; with sham injection and other nonsurgical treatments such as exercise, weight loss, and physical therapy . Including an objective outcome measure, such as the 6- min walk test, which has been found to be an excellent predictor of functional performance after total-knee arthroplasty, may be able to capture treatment effects in future studies . In the C-SOUND trial, both single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection and placebo were well tolerated in Chinese patients with primary knee Osteoarthritis;. The number of treatmentrelated Treatment-emergent adverse events; in target knee was similar in the two treatment groups. The most commonly reported treatment-related TEAdverse event; in the target knee was joint swelling and arthralgia in the single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection and in the placebo groups, respectively. This is in accordance with previous clinical trials . There are several limitations which may hinder the validity of our results. The scales such as Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A1, Western Ontario McMaster Universities. A, Patient global assessment; and Clinical observer global assessment; should be well validated in the population living in China. Another limitation is that the current study was conducted in patients residing only within China and the results may not be applicable to patients outside China. While the relief of pain and safety in the single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection group are consistent with previous results of 3 doses of 2 ml Hylan G-F 20 weekly injection studies, this study shows similar efficacy when comparing single 6 ml Hylan G-F 20 injection to Intraarticular; placebo which may be due to a strong Intraarticular; placebo effect. The findings of this clinical trial bring into question the relevance of this trial’s results to the published results of previously conducted trials where ethnicity may not have been considered as an important factor which may influence the results of a clinical trial investigating an active Intraarticular; treatment in comparison with Intraarticular; placebo in patients with knee Osteoarthritis;. More studies are needed to investigate the effect of placebo in knee osteoarthritis in different part of the world and to evaluate impact of the social and cultural aspects when using Intraarticular; placebo as a comparator in knee osteoarthritis clinical trials.