Knee osteoarthritis (KOsteoarthritis;) is the most prevalent type of degenerative knee joint disease, with an incidence up to 25% in elderly people, and causes pain and disability . KOsteoarthritis; is considered a whole knee joint disease rather than a disease from cartilage degradation alone. Several knee joint structures including the infrapatellar fat pad (Infrapatellar fat pad) are involved in KOsteoarthritis; . The Infrapatellar fat pad is an intracapsular but extrasynovial structure and functions as an anatomo-functional unit in combination with the synovial membrane . It can stabilize and protect the knee from mechanical damage . Infrapatellar fat pad pathological manifestations in KOsteoarthritis; patients are typically characterized by inflammatory infiltration and fibrosis accompanied with alterations of biomechanical properties . How Infrapatellar fat pad is involved in the pathogenesis of KOsteoarthritis; is partially but not completely clear. Possible mechanisms include the following: (1) the immune response of Infrapatellar fat pad is activated by cartilage-specific autoantigens; (2) subsequent local inflammation is induced by a variety of cytokines and adipokines; and (3) Infrapatellar fat pad interacts with cartilage, subchondral bone, and synovial membrane . Therefore, the Infrapatellar fat pad plays an important role in KOsteoarthritis;. Better understanding of this process may provide more information of the progression, diagnosis and clinical management of KOsteoarthritis;. Noninvasive evaluation of KOsteoarthritis;-related Infrapatellar fat pad is performed mainly by magnetic resonance imaging (Magnetic resonance imaging;) . Parameters of MR signal intensity, shape, and volume in the Infrapatellar fat pad have been considered as biomarkers for structural abnormalities and inflammation severity in KOsteoarthritis; . However, this evaluation method is subjective and time-consuming and has poor inter-observer and intra-observer variability. Perfusion parameters on contrast enhanced Magnetic resonance imaging; can assess KOsteoarthritis;-related Infrapatellar fat pad alterations with good variability. However, the side effects, ethical issues, and high cost limit its application . In contrast, radiomics noninvasively captures subtle alterations of the entire tissue and lesion through quantitative radiomic features within conventional standardof-care medical images . This technique has shown promise in the musculoskeletal system, such as in the cartilage and subchondral bone radiomic analysis in KOsteoarthritis; patients . However, it has not been applied in the evaluation of Infrapatellar fat pad. The purpose of this study was to develop and evaluate the ability of a radiomic signature for detecting Infrapatellar fat pad abnormality in KOsteoarthritis;. We also determined the relationship of Infrapatellar fat pad radiomics alteration with knee structural abnormalities. This retrospective study was approved by the institutional review board of ZJPer-protocol; Hospital and informed consent was waived. All data were retrieved consecutively at our institution from January 2018 to January 2022 via the Picture Archiving and Communication System. Patients were eligible for inclusion if they were over 40 years old and underwent Magnetic resonance imaging; and radiographs for the same knee within a 6-month interval. In case of multiple Magnetic resonance imaging; and/ or radiograph examinations for the same knees, paired examinations with the shortest interval were selected. The exclusion criteria were as follows: (1) history of previous knee surgery or injury; (2) history of preexisting joint diseases (e.g., inflammatory arthritis, osteonecrosis, metabolic disorder, or other diseases that affect Infrapatellar fat pad); and (3) poor quality of Magnetic resonance imaging; or radiograph images. Finally, a total of 164 knees were enrolled in this study. The knees were randomly divided into the training dataset (n=114) and test dataset (n=50) at a ratio of 7:3 according to random numbers auto-generated by a computer (Fig. 1). Knee assessments on radiographs and Magnetic resonance imaging; were independently performed by two musculoskeletal radiologists (R1 and R2, with 13 and 18 years of experience, respectively), who were blinded to the clinical data. Disagreement in assessments were resolved by discussion among the two radiologists. The Kellgren–Lawrence (Kellgren & Lawrence;) scoring system  was used to score knee radiographs as follows: score 0, no change; score 1, doubtful osteophytes and joint space narrowing; score 2, definite osteophytes but suspicious joint space narrowing; score 3, moderate multiple osteophytes, definite joint space narrowing, some sclerosis, but possible bone deformity; and score 4, large osteophytes, marked joint space narrowing, severe sclerosis, and definite bone deformity. Using the Kellgren & Lawrence; scores , knees were classified into two groups: no detectable KOsteoarthritis; with Kellgren & Lawrence; score of <2 (Osteoarthritis;– group) and KOsteoarthritis; with Kellgren & Lawrence; score of ≥2 (Osteoarthritis;+ group). Magnetic resonance imaging;s were performed using a 1.5T Magnetic resonance imaging; scanner (Philips, Ingenia) with an 8-channel knee coil. Conventional T1-weighted and proton density-weighted fat-saturated images of the knee were obtained to evaluate the presence and grade of knee structural abnormalities (Supplementary Table S1). Cartilage, bone, meniscus, ligaments, and synovium of the joint structures were separately scored according to a modified whole organ magnetic resonance imaging score (WOdds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles;epetition maximum.S) . Cartilage defects were scored from 0 to 6, subarticular bone marrow abnormalities from 0 to 3, bone cysts from 0 to 3, bone attrition from 0 to 3, osteophytes from 0 to 7, meniscus from 0 to 6, ligaments from 0 to 1, effusion-synovitis from 0 to 3, and Hoffa-synovitis from 0 to 3 (Supplementary Table S2). Sagittal proton density-weighted fat-saturated images of the knee were used in the quantitative radiomics analyses, as follows: The dedicated ITK-SNAP software (www.itksnap.org) was used for segmentation of Infrapatellar fat pad. Briefly, R1 drew a polygonal region of interest of the entire Infrapatellar fat pad territory slice-by-slice and then generated a volume of interest (Volume of interest;) for the subsequent feature extraction (Fig. 2). After a 6-week interval, 20 randomly selected images were independently segmented by R1 and R2, who were completely blinded to previous Volume of interest;s, for the interand intra-rater agreements. Image preprocessing of images, including image resample, intensity normalization and gray-level discretization, was performed using PHIgo software (GE Healthcare, V1.5.0, China). A total 1037 radiomic features were extracted from all Volume of interest;s via the PHIgo software including (1) shape features from original image and (2) first-order features, gray level cooccurrence matrix (Gray level cooccurrence matrix) features, gray level size zone matrix (Gray level size zone matrix) features, gray level run length matrix (Gray level run length matrix) features, neighboring gray tone difference matrix (Neighboring gray tone difference matrix) features and gray level dependence matrix (Gray level dependence matrix) features from original, wavelet and Laplacian of Gaussian filtered images. A summary of the extracted features is shown in Supplementary Figure S1. The extracted features with an intraclass correlation coefficient (Interclass correlation coefcient;) of >0.75 were left because of stable parameters. Analysis of variance, minimum redundancy maximum relevance (mRepetition maximum.R), and Gradient Boosting Decision Tree (GBDT) was used for further feature selection by IPain medications version 2.5.5. First, the radiomic signature was developed on the basis of selected features by three machine-learning algorithms, including logistic regression (Logistic regression;), Bayes, and support vector machine (Support vector machine;). The stability was quantified by the 1000 Bootstrap replication and its relative standard deviation (Relative standard deviation), computed as the standard deviation divided by the corresponding mean value of the 1000 Area under curve; values of each algorithm. Second, we selected the algorithm with minimal Relative standard deviation for further analysis. Finally, the radiomics score (Rad-score) was calculated for each patient using the developed radiomic signature derived from the data in the training dataset. These procedures were performed using the IPain medications software. Statistical analysis was performed using SPSS software (version 22.0) and R software (version 3.4.1). Statistical significance was defined at P<0.05. Continuous data are reported as the mean±standard deviation or median (interquartile range), and categorical data are reported as numbers (percentages). Normality testing was evaluated using the Shapiro–Wilk test. Differences in the general data distributions between training and test data were assessed using the two-sample t test, Mann–Whitney U test and chi-square test. Second, the inter- and intraobserver reliability of the Infrapatellar fat pad segmentation were assessed using Interclass correlation coefcient;. The performance of the radiomic signature was evaluated by the area under the curve (Area under curve;) of receiver operating characteristics (Receiver operating characteristic;) curve, accuracy, precision, sensitivity, and specificity; its goodness-of-fit was evaluated by the Hosmer–Lemeshow test. Finally, the association between WOdds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles;epetition maximum.S and radiomic quantitative values was measured using Spearman’s rank correlation coefficient. A total of 164 knees were included in this study and randomly classified into the training (n=114) and test (n=50) datasets. General characteristics including age, gender, side, body mass index (Body mass index;) and Kellgren–Lawrence scoring in the datasets are summarized in Table 1. No significant differences were observed between the two datasets (p=0.08–0.74). The inter-observer reliability on the extracted features between the two Infrapatellar fat pad segmentations from the two raters was greater than 0.79. The intra-observer reliability on the extracted features between the two Infrapatellar fat pad segmentations from one rater was greater than 0.82. The 419 and the 24 features were retained by analysis of variance and mRepetition maximum.R in turn. The eight most valuable features were identified by GBDT, including original_glcm_Correlation, wavelet-LHL_firstorder_Kurtosis, wavelet-LHL_firstorder_Mean, wavelet-LHH_glszm_LargeAreaHighGrayLevelEmphasis, wavelet-HLL_firstorder_Kurtosis, wavelet-HLL_glszm_ LargeAreaHighGrayLevelEmphasis, wavelet-HLH_ ngtdm_Contrast, and wavelet-HHL_firstorder_Kurtosis (Supplementary part I and Fig. 3). The Relative standard deviation of Logistic regression; (5.74%) was lower than those of Bayes (6.57%), and Support vector machine; (18.53%) (Supplementary part II). Therefore, the Logistic regression; was chosen to construct the radiomic signature, with a linear combination of the selected eight features weighted by their corresponding weight coefficients (Fig. 3). The formula of rad-score based on Logistic regression; and the eight selected features is shown Supplementary part III and was calculated for each patient. The radiomic signature showed good predictive performance for KOsteoarthritis; in the training and test datasets (Table 2; Fig. 4). In the training dataset, the Area under curve;, accuracy, precision, sensitivity, and specificity of the radiomic signature were 0.83 ((95% confidence interval : 0.74–0.92), 81.6%, 94.8%, 81.1%, and 83.3%, respectively. The Hosmer–Lemeshow test revealed no overfitting (p=0.46). In the test dataset, the Area under curve;, accuracy, precision, sensitivity, and specificity of the radiomic signature were 0.78 (95% Confidence interval;: 0.65–0.90), 72%, 90.6%, 72.5%, and 70%, respectively In the training and test datasets, both of the Infrapatellar fat pad radscores were lower in the Osteoarthritis;– group (0.41–0.63) compared with Osteoarthritis;+ group (2.01–2.31), with significant differences between the two groups (P<0.001 and P=0.005, respectively). No significant difference was observed between the two datasets (P=0.85) (Table 1; Fig. 5). Significant and positive correlations were found between rad-scores and WOdds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles;epetition maximum.S scores of total knee structures (r=0.45–0.63, all p<0.01). Significant and positive correlations were found between rad-scores and WOdds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles;epetition maximum.S subscores of cartilage (r=0.29–0.54, all p<0.01), bone (r=0.43–0.56, all p<0.01), meniscus (r=0.20–0.30, all p≤0.01), ligament (r=0.47, p<0.01), and synovium (r=0.70, p<0.01) (Table 3; Fig. 6). Infrapatellar fat pad may play a beneficial or detrimental role in KOsteoarthritis; depending on the biomechanical, anticatabolic, proinflammatory or metabolic properties. Therefore, evaluation of Infrapatellar fat pad can play a key role in the diagnostic and clinical management of KOsteoarthritis; . Magnetic resonance imaging; parameters of signal intensity, shape, volume, perfusion and others have frequently been used to evaluate Infrapatellar fat pad alteration in patients with KOsteoarthritis; . However, these methods are of substantial variability, with side effects and high cost. In this study, we developed a novel radiomic signature to detect Infrapatellar fat pad abnormality in older adults with KOsteoarthritis;. Our study showed the following findings: (1) KOsteoarthritis;-related Infrapatellar fat pad abnormality can be evaluated by the rad-scores quantitatively and meaningfully; (2) the rad-scores were associated with the severity of KOsteoarthritis; based on WOdds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles;epetition maximum.S scoring; and (3) the rad-scores were significantly and positively associated with knee structural abnormality, especially synovium, bone and cartilage abnormality. Pathological studies of KOsteoarthritis; have reported that vascular neoformations, edema, fibrosis, and inflammatory reaction occur in the Infrapatellar fat pad, leading to an increase in the heterogeneity of Infrapatellar fat pad . In this study, the Area under curve;s of the radiomics signature in training and test dataset were greater than 0.75. The good performance of the radiomics signature suggested it may represent an accurate and effective means of evaluation to detect Infrapatellar fat pad heterogeneity in KOsteoarthritis;. We delineated the whole Infrapatellar fat pad with more objective and comprehensive information compared with measurement of morphology  or lesion signal intensity deviation, including shape feature and first-order features, second-order features, and these features combined with filters . Our findings identified eight radiomic features, and the feature with the most weighted was wavelet-HLL_glszm_LargeAreaHighGrayLevelEmphasis, which measures the joint distribution of larger size zones with higher gray-level values in the wavelet-HLL images . Seven of the eight features were extracted from wavelet filtered images, indicating that features of wavelet filters better reflect the biological characteristics and heterogeneity of Infrapatellar fat pad in KOsteoarthritis;. Wavelet filter is a time-frequency analysis method that is beneficial to image sharpening and noise elimination . Three of the eight features were firstorder_Kurtosis, which describes the difference in the grayscale intensity distribution . Our results showed that the radiomic signature of Infrapatellar fat pad can discriminate patients with KOsteoarthritis; and is positively and consistently associated with WOdds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles;epetition maximum.S scoring of total knee structures. WOdds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles;epetition maximum.S, a semiquantitative, multifeature evaluation method of KOsteoarthritis; in conventional Magnetic resonance imaging;, provides a measurement of severity and potentially relevant structure abnormality of KOsteoarthritis;; this method has been widely used in many clinical and epidemiological trials . Thus, the close correlation of the radiomic signature and WOdds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles;epetition maximum.S scoring suggested that the severity of KOsteoarthritis; could be reflected by the radiomic signature. A higher value of rad-score meant greater severity of KOsteoarthritis;, and Infrapatellar fat pad may play an important role in the progression of KOsteoarthritis;. Infrapatellar fat pad radiomic alternation in KOsteoarthritis; patients was significantly correlated with knee structural abnormalities, in which cartilage and bone abnormality had a higher absolute r value of the correlation coefficient. This result suggested that Infrapatellar fat pad is more closely related to cartilage and bone in KOsteoarthritis;. The Infrapatellar fat pad secretes cytokines and adipokines such as leptin, adiponectin, Interleukin-6;, and fibroblast growth factor, which affect cartilage and participate in osteophyte formation . These joint structures can also adjust the Infrapatellar fat pad . Previous studies have also shown that Infrapatellar fat pad alteration on Magnetic resonance imaging;, such as signal intensity, maximum area, and fat fraction, was significantly correlated with knee structural abnormalities, but limited to cartilage defects, bone marrow lesions, and synovitis . In this study, the knee structure description was more comprehensive and also included bone cysts, bone attrition, osteophytes, meniscus, and ligaments. This study has several limitations. First, it was a crosssectional and retrospective study, without prospective research and longitudinal study. Whether the radiomic signature is a biomarker to predict the Infrapatellar fat pad development of KOsteoarthritis; is unclear. However, our results indicate that the radiomic signature predicts Infrapatellar fat pad alteration of KOsteoarthritis;, which provides a new perspective for future research. Second, this was a single-center study, and the size and category of samples were not considerable. Expanding the sample size and covering a larger population are necessary to represent cross-regional and ethnic groups in future research. Third, histological examinations were unable to performed in this study, so the relationship between radiomic signature and Infrapatellar fat pad histological abnormality remain unclear; these examinations should be pursued in future studies. Finally, our grouping design was based on the synthesis of previous literature reports and the matching of individual factors such as age, sex, and other physical factors of patients. Therefore, this study is of certain reliability and research significance. The radiomic signature established in this study may be a reliable biomarker to detect Infrapatellar fat pad abnormality of KOsteoarthritis;. Radiomic alterations in Infrapatellar fat pad were associated with knee structural abnormalities, especially synovium, cartilage, and subchondral bone abnormality, in older adults. Abbreviations Area under curve;: Area under the curve Gray level cooccurrence matrix: Gray level cooccurrence matrix Gray level dependence matrix: Gray level dependence matrix Gray level run length matrix: Gray level run length matrix Gray level size zone matrix: Gray level size zone matrix Infrapatellar fat pad: Infrapatellar fat pad Kellgren & Lawrence;: Kellgren–Lawrence KOsteoarthritis;: Knee osteoarthritis Logistic regression;: Logistic regression Magnetic resonance imaging;: Magnetic resonance imaging mRepetition maximum.R: Minimum redundancy maximum relevance Neighboring gray tone difference matrix: Neighboring gray tone difference matrix Receiver operating characteristic;: Receiver operating characteristic Relative standard deviation: Relative standard deviation Support vector machine;: Support vector machine WOdds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles;epetition maximum.S: Whole-organ magnetic resonance imaging score