Total hip and knee arthroplasty (THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty;) have been widely performed since the 1970s. In 2009 over a million of THyaluronic acid; and Total knee arthroplasty; were carried out in the United States . Osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) is the main clinical indication for which these procedures are performed . Due to the ageing society as well as the obesity epidemic, the prevalence of Osteoarthritis; is increasing . As a result the procedure rates of THyaluronic acid; and Total knee arthroplasty; are expected to rise, some estimates even indicate a quadruple demand by 2030 . The rise in THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty; surgery has important implications for health care costs as well as capacity. As such, it is of utmost importance that patients are carefully selected, and that these procedures are optimally timed to achieve the best possible patient outcomes and that revision surgery is prevented thereby reducing costs and worse outcomes. However, large heterogeneity exists in the patients disease severity at the time of surgery . This can partly be explained by the patient’s own wishes, with some patients preferring a THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty; to continue an active lifestyle whereas others request surgery to be able to perform daily living activities. In addition, the attitude of the surgeon towards arthroplasty plays an important role since surgeons with a positive attitude towards this procedure will have higher surgery rates. This may explain why studies on appropriateness criteria for THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty; showed that in approximately 20-45 % of patients appropriateness of arthroplasty was considered uncertain . All of these may explain to some extent why a substantial proportion of the patients is unsatisfied after THyaluronic acid; and Total knee arthroplasty; (10-30 %), indicating that outcomes are less than expected and/or that expectations were too high . Therefore, evidence-based indication criteria for THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty; to guide decision making are warranted to improve optimal timing and patient selection, which is internationally acknowledged . Guidelines concerning THyaluronic acid; and Total knee arthroplasty; indications have been published and several studies regarding the appropriateness of THyaluronic acid; and Total knee arthroplasty; have been conducted . However, an overview of the evidence on which the proposed indication criteria are based is lacking, to guide decision making on timing of THyaluronic acid; and Total knee arthroplasty;. In the present study the available guidelines and their indication sets for primary THyaluronic acid; and Total knee arthroplasty; will be reviewed. In addition, we assess the quality of these guidelines and the evidence on which the indication sets are based. In the second part a systematic search is conducted of scientific publications containing proposed indication sets for primary THyaluronic acid; and Total knee arthroplasty; in Osteoarthritis; or expert opinion. Websites of orthopaedic and arthritis organizations (English or Dutch websites) were independently searched by two authors for guidelines concerning primary THyaluronic acid;/ Total knee arthroplasty; for Osteoarthritis;. When these websites cross-linked to guidelines from other organizations these were also included. All available guidelines published since January 1, 2000 were included. A librarian-assisted search strategy was performed on August 3 2014 to retrieve additional publications on THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty; indications. The following databases were searched: Pubmed, MEDLINE, Embase, Web of Science, the Continuity of care;han-Mei Ho-Henriksson (corresponding author);Rheumatoid arthritis;NE Librabry, CENTRheumatoid arthritis;L and Confidence interval;NAHL. Searches were limited to English, Dutch and German language papers published since January 1, 2000 (see Additional file 1). First titles and abstracts were independently screened by two authors (MG/SH).The full-text articles were reviewed by MG and were included when the following criteria were met: studies reporting about indication criteria and/or appropriateness of decision tools for primary THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty; in Osteoarthritis;. Papers involving guidelines on unicompartimental replacements, resurfacing or revision of THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty; were excluded if no separate indications for primary THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty; were provided. Also papers on prioritizing tools to reduce waiting times were excluded unless these reported on the appropriateness of surgery as all of these patients on the waiting list already have an indication and variables determining priority are not necessarily the same as variables determining an indication for surgery. The included papers where checked by a second author (SH). If disagreement existed the authors tried to reach consensus, when necessary a third author had the decisive vote (PM). When a guideline was also published as a scientific paper, only the guideline was included. The following information was extracted from the guidelines by MG: orthopaedic or arthritis organization, publication date, indication criteria and the level of evidence on which indication criteria were based (see below). We extracted the following information from the publications: first author, publication date, country where the indication criteria were developed, the organization(s) that initiated the development of the criteria, study type, indication criteria and the level of evidence on which indication criteria were based. The level of evidence was scored according to the following the criteria : ➢ Ia evidence from meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials ➢ Ib evidence from at least one randomized controlled trial ➢ IIa evidence from at least one controlled study without randomization ➢ IIb evidence from at least one well-designed quasiexperimental study ➢ III evidence from at least one non-experimental descriptive study, such as comparative studies, correlation studies, and case-control studies ➢ IV evidence from expert committee reports or opinions or clinical experience of respected authorities or both Data extraction and level of evidence score was checked by SH. Guideline quality was assessed with the validated AGRole-emotion;E-II instrument (Appraisal of Guidelines for Research and Evaluation, Dutch version) . This instrument evaluates the process of practice guideline development and the quality of reporting. Two authors independently scored the guidelines according to the AGRole-emotion;E-II protocol (MG/SH). When large differences existed the authors tried to reach consensus, when necessary a third author had the decisive vote (PM). The AGRole-emotion;E-II consists of six quality domains: 1) scope and purpose, 2) stakeholder involvement, 3) rigour of development, 4) clarity of presentation, 5) applicability and 6) editorial independence. Each domain entails several questions which are rated from 1 (lowest score) to 7 (highest score), with 1 rated for items with no clear discussion or no specific information, 7 for exceptional reporting quality, 2–6 for items not fully meeting the AGRole-emotion;E-II criteria. Scaled domain scores were calculated using the following formula: ð Þ Obtained score ‐ Minimum possible score ð Þ Maximum possible score ‐ Minimum possible score The scores will always lie between 0 and 1, with scores closer to 1 indicating higher quality. The scaled domain scores from the two authors were averaged to obtain one quality score for each domain. We summed the scaled domain scores across the 6 domains to obtain 1 overall guideline score. The maximum summed score was thus 6, indicating high quality. Across guidelines and studies, 12 THyaluronic acid;, 10 Total knee arthroplasty; and 2 THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty; indication sets were found. We found six guidelines concerning THyaluronic acid;, of which three specific Osteoarthritis; guidelines (EULAR , National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence;  and Osteoarthritis;RSI ). In addition, five guidelines concerning Total knee arthroplasty; were found, of which four Osteoarthritis; specific guidelines (BOsteoarthritis; , EULAR , National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence;  and Osteoarthritis;RSI ) (Table 1). Most indication criteria consisted of the following three domains: pain, function and radiological changes, with the prerequisite that pain could not be controlled by conservative therapy (Table 1). Specific cut-off values or ranges for pain and function were not reported. For radiological changes only the BOsteoarthritis; Total knee arthroplasty; guideline reported a cut-off value (Kellgren Lawrence grade ≥ III). The evidence on which the indication criteria were based was rated as low quality evidence (level IV). The quality of the guidelines differed considerably between the AGRole-emotion;E-II domains and the guidelines (Fig. 1). The ranges of the scaled domain scores were: scope and purpose 0.06-0.81, stakeholder involvement 0.19-0.75, rigour of development 0.03-0.88, clarity of presentation 0.33-0.89, applicability 0-0.50, editorial independence 0- 0.96. Low scores were frequently attained in the editorial independence domain due to no clear statement on the influence of the funding body and competing interests. In addition, low scores were often attained in the applicability domain, due to no clear statements on monitoring/auditing criteria of the guideline or facilitators and barriers to the application of the guideline. The Osteoarthritis;RSI and NOV guidelines attained the highest overall scores, 4.78 and 4.46 respectively. This is explained because both guidelines were developed according to the AGRole-emotion;E-II. The lowest scores were attained by the NZ guidelines, THyaluronic acid; (0.84) and Total knee arthroplasty; (0.46). These guidelines primarily consisted of a, from the BOsteoarthritis; guidelines derived, summary of statements concerning THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty; but limited information on the required 6 domains. Although the process of guideline development and quality of reporting differed considerably between the guidelines, the given indication criteria for primary THyaluronic acid; and Total knee arthroplasty; are similar across guidelines (pain, function, radiological changes). Hence, it seems that guideline quality did not influence the main domains included in the indication sets. Our literature search yielded 3065 references (Fig. 2), the full-text of 88 papers was assessed on eligibility. Of these 70 were excluded mainly because no indication criteria for THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty; in Osteoarthritis; patients were reported. Finally, 18 papers were included (12 reviews/6 original studies). Of the included 12 reviews, only 2 were systematic reviews (Table 2) . Furthermore, only 2 reviews focussed on indications for THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty; as their main topic . In addition, 1 review investigated the indications for THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty; referral . Other topics on which the reviews focussed were management of THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty; , effectiveness of THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty;  and state of the art overviews of THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty; . Pain not responsive to conservative treatment, in patients who have functional limitations and radiographic evidence of joint degeneration was most often reported as THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty; indication (Table 2). No specific cut-off values were mentioned. It was often not stated if deviations in all these domains should be apparent, or which combinations should be apparent to indicate THyaluronic acid; or Total knee arthroplasty;. Furthermore, the evidence behind all these indication criteria was very low (level IV). In 3 of the reviews the experts explicitly stated that no appropriate indication sets are available for performing THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty;. Three original publications reported on Total knee arthroplasty;  and 3 on THyaluronic acid; . Yamabe et al.  considered severe cartilage defects as an optimal indication for Total knee arthroplasty;. In their discussion section they also included pain but no referral was made to any evidence or the way these indications were established. The other 5 included original studies investigated decision tools to assess the appropriateness of Total knee arthroplasty; (n = 2)  or THyaluronic acid; (n = 3)  in Osteoarthritis; patients. Two studies evaluated algorithms to assess Total knee arthroplasty; appropriateness . The Escobar algorithm was established using the Rheumatoid arthritis;ND/UCLA appropriateness method, in which expert opinion is combined with available scientific evidence . The following variables where taken into account in different combinations: symptomatology, radiology, age, mobility and stability, previous surgical management and localization. Symptomatology and radiology were the largest contributors in explaining the variability of appropriateness in their model. Table 3 depicts various scenarios in which Total knee arthroplasty; was considered inappropriate, uncertain or appropriate . However, appropriateness was rated uncertain in a high percentage of scenarios (24.5 %). Another study showed that patients with their Total knee arthroplasty; rated as appropriate were more likely to achieve better health-related quality of life than patients for whom the Total knee arthroplasty; was rated as inappropriate . Riddle et al. modified the Escobar algorithm to attain a decision tool for United States. patients . They used the Kellgren Lawrence score rather than the Ahlbäck classification and quantified symptomatology using the Western Ontario and McMaster osteoarthritis index (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index). In 21.7 % of patients appropriateness of Total knee arthroplasty; was rated as uncertain. Quartiles;uintana et al. developed three THyaluronic acid; appropriateness algorithms in Osteoarthritis; patients . Two were established using the Rheumatoid arthritis;ND/UCLA appropriateness method. These algorithms took the following variables into account: age, surgical risk, previous nonsurgical treatments, pain and functional limitation. Table 4 depicts various scenarios in which THyaluronic acid; was considered inappropriate, uncertain or appropriate . In both algorithms, appropriateness was rated uncertain in a large part of patients, 46.2 % and 32.4 %. Both algorithms were validated in a population of Osteoarthritis; patients scheduled for THyaluronic acid; . Patients rated as appropriate THyaluronic acid; candidates had better outcomes at 3 months on the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index stiffness and functional limitation domains compared to inappropriate candidates. The other algorithm was based on the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index as they wanted to develop a tool based on a disease specific instrument rather than on expert opinion . Surgical risk, pre-intervention pain and functional limitations were found to significantly predict changes in the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index pain domain 6 months after THyaluronic acid; and preintervention functional limitations predicted changes in the functional limitation domain . In addition, by means of a classification and regression tree analysis a summary tree was constructed. THyaluronic acid; was rated as appropriate when pain was qualified as severe (according to the pain and limitation short scales), when Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index pain pre-intervention score was >60 or when Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index functional limitation pre-intervention was >60 with pain pre-intervention >40. Surgical risk was not included in the decision tree. However, the authors stated that one should be aware that higher surgical risk often results in a worse outcome and that conservative treatment should always be performed before considering THyaluronic acid;. Again this decision tool was validated in a THyaluronic acid; cohort. They assessed sensitivity and specificity of being classified as appropriate compared with the appropriateness based on the minimal clinical important difference values (gain in Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index 6 months after THyaluronic acid;, pain domain ≥30, function domain ≥25). A sensitivity of 95.0 % and a specificity of 41.0 % were found, suggesting that it seems difficult to identify the non-appropriate cases. In this systematic review we examined the quality and evidence base of existing indication criteria and guidelines for primary THyaluronic acid; and Total knee arthroplasty; in Osteoarthritis; patients. Across guidelines and publications we found, 12 THyaluronic acid;, 10 Total knee arthroplasty; and 2 THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty; indication sets. Only 6 guidelines included indication criteria for THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty; with differing quality. Overall quality of the guidelines summed across the 6 domains ranged from 0.46 to 4.78. Low scores were frequently attained in the editorial independence domain and the applicability domain. High scores were often attained in the clarity of presentation domain. In the additional 12 reviews and 6 original publications most indication criteria included the following three domains: pain, function and radiological changes. Frequently a prerequisite was that conservative treatment had been insufficient in controlling pain. However, domain specific cut-off values or ranges were mostly not reported. Also, it was often not stated if pain, functional disability and radiological changes should all exist, or which combinations of domain-specific deviations should be apparent to indicate THyaluronic acid; or Total knee arthroplasty;. The level of evidence was low (level IV). We were not able to discriminate between high and poor quality guidelines as the AGRole-emotion;E-II has not given a set of rules to define a high quality guideline. Given the low scores in the applicability and the editorial independence domains, we advise guideline developers to pay more attention in reporting these issues. A limitation of the current study may be that the scoring of guidelines according to the AGRole-emotion;E-II is not completely objective, even though the manual clearly articulates how each item should be scored including the criteria and considerations for each item. However, the weighting of criteria and considerations in the overall scoring of the item is not mentioned, which could introduce inter-observer variability. To cope with this, the AGRole-emotion;E-II proposes to use more than one observer, which is why the guidelines were scored independently by two investigators and compared to reach consensus (with or without a decisive vote of a third investigator). As such, we tried to minimalize subjectivity. Another limitation of this study is that we restricted our search strategy to English, Dutch and German language papers. In addition, our website search of orthopaedic and arthritis organizations was restricted to English and Dutch websites. Therefore we may have missed part of the existing literature on indication criteria for THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty;. Immunoreactive;respective of the quality of individual guidelines, the same domains concerning THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty; indications were reported across most guidelines. Based on the design of included studies, the highest level of evidence was reported by the Osteoarthritis;RSI and EULAR guidelines (only nonexperimental studies, level III evidence). The evidence on which indication sets were based came from studies investigating the effectiveness and safety of THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty;, but these studies did not specifically address THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty; indication sets. Therefore the evidence from these guidelines was rated as level IV evidence, so that the evidence on which indication criteria are based, is low quality evidence. Looking at other literature, most of the reviews also did not specifically focus on THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty; indications and none of the systematic reviews did. Moreover, in 2 of 3 reviews with THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty; indication as the main topic it was concluded that no conclusive evidence on THyaluronic acid;/ Total knee arthroplasty; indications are currently available. Furthermore, few original papers investigating THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty; indications were found, which may be partly due to the employed language restrictions, possibly resulting in language bias. Four of five original studies came from the same group and four were based on the Rheumatoid arthritis;ND/UCLA method . Although this is a respected approach, the limitation is that the indication set is mainly based on expert opinion if little research is available. Thus, even with an optimal composition of experts in the panel, the level of evidence will still be low. This is currently the case for THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty; indication sets. In addition, within the proposed THyaluronic acid;/ Total knee arthroplasty; decision tools, the appropriateness of surgery was rated as uncertain in many patients. This makes these decision tools difficult to use in daily practice, as patients with appropriateness rated as uncertain may have similar improvements in health outcomes as patients rated as appropriate. Therefore, no evidence-based indications concerning THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty; are currently available which can be uniformly used in daily practice. Nonetheless, when indications were reported, the same domains were included. Hence, although evidence based studies are lacking, expert opinion seems reasonably consistent. This is promising as these domains may give clues to the targets on which future research for THyaluronic acid;/ Total knee arthroplasty; indications should focus. It seems evident that pain, function, radiological changes and failed conservative therapy should be part of future studies on THyaluronic acid;/ Total knee arthroplasty; indications. The research of indication criteria is, however, difficult. One of the difficulties is that pain and function are relatively subjective measures both when reported by the patient and when judged by the physician. This is illustrated by the fact that although consensus on the indication domains seems to exist, disease severity greatly varies at the time of surgery across different centres in Europe and Australia . This suggests no agreement on the cut-off values or ranges within these domains or between combinations of domains as an indication for surgery. Another difficulty is that it is not possible to conduct controlled trials with the timing of surgery randomized, so that other designs are needed. As a consequence the highest level of evidence is not likely to be obtained, but likely to be relatively low given mainly observational studies (level II and III). However, outcomes of observational studies can be valid and may provide similar results as Randomised controlled trial;s. For instance, metaanalyses comparing Randomised controlled trial;s and observational studies of treatment effects found no large systematic differences . Furthermore, randomization will avoid confounding by indication but this can also be achieved with advanced statistical analyses and pseudo-randomization in observational studies. To obtain the best possible evidence, we should try to identify predictors for a (less than) good outcome after THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty;. With the identified predictors we might be able to simulate with mathematical modelling at which cut-off points surgery has the best postoperative outcomes, taking into account the limited lifespan of a prosthesis and the fact that revision surgery mostly has worse outcomes than primary surgery. In conclusion, our current study gives an overview of the available evidence base of THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty; indication criteria in both guidelines and original studies. We showed that the currently available THyaluronic acid;/Total knee arthroplasty; indication criteria are based on limited and low quality evidence. Hence, empirical research on this topic is needed, especially regarding domain specific cut-off values or ranges at which the best postoperative outcomes are achieved.