Knee osteoarthritis (KOsteoarthritis;), as the most common chronic generative joint disease, mainly manifests knee joint pain, functional limitations, and even disability . Te exact pathogenesis of KOsteoarthritis; remains unclear, but it is considered as an infammatory disease involving immune cells and their efector cytokines . Te interaction between immune cells and cytokines is a dynamic process. Te interaction of positive and negative stimuli is complex, often involving multiple immune cells and cytokines  However, the role of immune cells and cytokines in the pathogenesis and progression of KOsteoarthritis; is still not elucidated . In the management of KOsteoarthritis;, current interventions are physical and pharmacological therapies, aiming to relieve pain and improve physical function, but all the interventions can’t stop the disease progression . Intraarticular hyaluronic acid(Intraarticular;Hyaluronic acid;)is a standard treatment for KOsteoarthritis; patients after failure to education and structured exercise programs, especially those who cannot tolerate the contraindications of Nonsteroidal Anti-Infammatory Drugs (Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory Drug;s) or those who still have symptoms like pain or functional limitations after use of Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory Drug;s, as the European society for clinical and economic aspects of osteoporosis, osteoarthritis and musculoskeletal diseases (Efect Size;CEO) and Osteoarthritis Research Society International (Osteoarthritis;RSI) 2019 guideline-recommended . Hyaluronic acid; plays multiple roles, such as articular cartilage lubrication, analgesic, anti-infammatory, chondroprotective, by interacting with receptors, enzymes, and many other biomolecules . Studies showed that Hyaluronic acid; interact with chondrocytes, synoviocytes, osteocytes and immune cells, regulating cell proliferation, diferentiation and migration, and efects on immune cells including reduction of motility of lymphocytes and macrophages . It also efects on infammatory mediators such as reduced levels of prostaglandins, leukotrienes, interleukin;-1 and interleukin;-6, etc. . However, there is still a lot of unclear mechanisms in Intraarticular;Hyaluronic acid; treatment. Previous studies showed that high molecular weight Hyaluronic acid; (≥3000 kDa) displays anti-infammatory and immunosuppressive properties and had better efect than low molecular weight Hyaluronic acid;, so High-molecular-weight Hyaluronic acid; was used in our study . During the treatment of intra-articular injection, it is accessible to get the synovial fuid, which can present the biological processes, to reveal the changes of infammation . Terefore, a cohort study was built by analyzing the cytokines and immune cells in synovial fuid during multiple follow-ups, aiming to elucidate the efect of hyaluronic acid on cytokines and immune cell change in KOsteoarthritis; patients. Tis study was a prospective observational study, approved by the Ethical Committee of Zhongshan Hospital Afliated with Fudan University (Shanghai, China) (B2021-287). Each patient signed an informed consent form. 50–85 years old patients who had symptomatic KOsteoarthritis; associated with chronic pain and were scheduled for Intraarticular;Hyaluronic acid; injection at our hospital were included. Highmolecular-weight Hyaluronic acid; was used. Patients with evidence of infammatory KOsteoarthritis; or endocrine disorder were excluded, and those who had knee injections within the preceding 6 months were also excluded. Patients were excluded from whom no knee joint synovial fuid could be withdrawn at the frst visit. Before injection at each visit, each patient was assessed the degree of pain with the Numeric Rating Scale (Numerical rating scale; OARSI: Osteoarthritis Research Society International;), which was based on an 11-point scale (0–10), and the degree of functional limitations with Lysholm knee score, which contained eight factors rated to produce an overall score on a point scale of 0–100. Kellgren-Lawrence(Kellgren–Lawrence;) grade was used to assess the radiographic Osteoarthritis; severity. An experienced rehabilitation physician performed the intra-articular injections according to current standards. Te synovial fuid of the knee joint was collected for the measurement of cytokines and immune cell phenotyping. Tere are 3–5 weekly times of injection in a course in most of the studies,  so in our study, patients received consecutive injections at weekly intervals, most of them took fve times, and some did3-4 treatment. Only patients who had at least three times visits were included to analyze. All knee joint synovial fuids of the patients enrolled in this study were collected. 2 mL of synovial fuid of each patient was extracted by the sterile syringe, and then added to an EDTA-anticoagulation tube (BD, Catalog No. 367856), stored at 4℃ in a refrigerator and would be dealt within 24 h. When performing sample processing, 500×g for 5 min was used to centrifugate the anticoagulation tube. 1 mL of the centrifuged sample suspension was taken out and added to a 1.5 mL Eppendorf tube, stored for cytokine measurements at -20℃ in the refrigerator. Te rest was washed twice with 2 mL 1×Phosphate-bufered saline; solution at 500×g for 5 min, then the cells in the sample suspension were performed phenotyping in the BD FAdenylyl cyclase;SCantoII fow cytometer. The cytometric beads assay (Cytometric beads assay;) method was used for the cytokine measurements of each sample, and the detection kit was purchased from Beijing Kuangbo Biotechnology Co., Ltd. (Cat. No.: C60011). The cytokines measured in this study included interleukin-1β (interleukin;-1β), interleukin;-2, interleukin;-4, interleukin;-5, interleukin;-6, interleukin;-8, interleukin;-10, interleukin;-12p70, interleukin;-17A, interleukin;-17F, interleukin;-22, interferon-γ (Interferon;-γ), tumor necrosis factor α (Tissue Necrosis Factor-alpha), and TNF-β. The tiraes ratio dilution for the mixed standard was used to create the standard curve for each cytokine. 45uL of fluorescent beads were added in each well of the 96-well plate (Merck Millipore, Cat. No.: mass spectrometry;BVN1250), then the liquid was drained off with a suction filter, and 45uL of two-fold diluted sample was added and incubated for 60 min with shaking (approximately 700 rpm) in the dark at room temperature. Each well was washed with 100μL 1 × washing solution (diluted by 2 × washing solution in the kit) for three times, and then 25μL 1 × biotinlabeled antibody mixture was added and incubated for 30 min with shaking (approximately 700 rpm) in the dark at room temperature. Then each well was washed with 100μL 1 × washing solution twice, then added 25μL of phycoerythrin-labeled streptavidin (Phycoerythrin-labeled streptavidin.) and incubated for 20 min. After washing twice, 200μL 1 × washing solution was added to each well to resuspend the beads. Then 2000 beads in each well were collected in the BD FAdenylyl cyclase;SLyric™ flow cytometer. The analysis of data was in the BD FCAP™ Array Software v3.0. An antibody panel was established for the sample immune cell phenotyping in the flow cytometer. The following antibodies used to detect the surface antigens were included in the panel: CD16 FITC (BD Bioscience, San Jose, CA, United States.A, cat. no.:560996), CD11b PE (BD Bioscience, cat. no.:561689), CD33 PE-cy7 (Thermo Fisher, cat. no.:25–0331-82), CD14 Annual percent change; AAPC: Average annual percent change;H7 (BD Bioscience, cat. no.:560270), CD3 BV421 (BD Bioscience, cat. no.:563797), and CD45 V500 (BD Bioscience, cat. no.:560779). The antibodies mixture was thoroughly mixed with the sample cells in a tube, then incubated for 15 min in the dark at room temperature. 1 mL 1 × lysing solution (diluted by BD FAdenylyl cyclase;S™ Lysing Solution 10X Concentrate, cat. no.:349202) was added in each sample to lyse red blood cells and incubated for 10 min in the dark at room temperature. 500 × g for 5 min was used for centrifugation, and the supernatant was discarded after centrifugation, then washed once with 1 × Phosphate-bufered saline; solution. 100μL 1 × Phosphate-bufered saline; solution was added to each tube, and all of the sample cells were collected in the flow cytometer. Side Scatter (SSC)/ CD45 was used to gate the CD45-positive leukocytes; SSC/CD33 was used to gate the macrophages and neutrophils; CD14/CD16 was used to distinguish the macrophages M1 and M2 subsets; SSC/CD3 was used to distinguish T cells from lymphocytes.Data were analyzed with the Spropensity scores;S software version 20.0 (IBone marrow; Corp., Armonk, NY, United States.A). Descriptive statistics are summarized as means±standard deviations (Standard deviation;) for continuous variables. Paired t-test was used to compare the diference between the pre-injection and afterinjection. Te Pearson correlation method was used for the relationship between cytokines and immune cells. A P value of<0.05 was considered statistically signifcant. Sixteen subjects with KOsteoarthritis; who were received hyaluronic acid injection treatment at weekly intervals were included in the study (Table 1). Tere was a total of 65 injections with 63 samples (an average of 4 times per person). Seven patients (43.75%) received 5 injections, three patients (18.75%) with 4 injections and six patients (37.5%) with 3 injections. Four patients stop the treatment because the efect was not good enough during the frst three times, while fve stop because the efect was so good that they thought no more treatment should be needed. Te mean Kellgren–Lawrence; grade was 2.56±0.89. Two patients were on Osteoarthritis; stage 1, fve on stage 2, seven on stage 3, and two on stage 4, Kellgren–Lawrence; grade was not associated with outcome. Te mean Numerical rating scale; OARSI: Osteoarthritis Research Society International; score for pain before the treatment was 6.06±1.98. After the treatment, 11 of whom (68.75%) showed noticeable pain relief and functional improvement. Te baseline of efective group and inefective group is not statistically diferent. Te Numerical rating scale; OARSI: Osteoarthritis Research Society International; score decreased to 2.06±2.67 (P=0.000, paired t-test). Te mean Lysholm score before injection was 46.25±18.65. After the treatment, it increased to 71.5±17.27 (P=0.000, paired t-test). Nine patients received the anti-infammatory drugs while seven did not. We did t-test between this two groups, and no signifcant diference on the pain relief, cytokines change and immune cells change. During the follow-up of more than three months, the patients’ symptoms were similar to those just after treatment, except the symptom of one patient worsened. Pain relief and functional improvement were synchronized, so we mainly directed our follow-up analysis on pain. Te changes in Numerical rating scale; OARSI: Osteoarthritis Research Society International; scores and Lysholm scores on each visit inpatients are shown in Fig. 1. Fourteen cytokines in the knee joint synovial fuid were measured Teir values were near the detection limits (≤2 pg/ml), except for the interleukin;-6 and interleukin;-8,so only the changes in interleukin;-6 and interleukin;-8 during follow-up were shown in Fig. 2. Te cytokines decreased signifcantly after the frst injection and then tended to be stable. Numerical rating scale; OARSI: Osteoarthritis Research Society International; scores were not signifcantly related to interleukin;-6 or interleukin;-8. Using fow cytometry analyses, we distinguished the Leukocytes (CD45bright) and found that the macrophages (SSClow/midCD45brightCD33strongCD14brightCD11bbrightCD16dim/bright), neutrophils (SSCmid/highCD45brightCD33brightCD14negCD11bbrightCD16dim bright), and T cells (SSClowCD45strongCD3strong) were the three major immune cell populations in the synovial fuid. In the synovial fuid of KOsteoarthritis; patients, Macrophages were the most abundant immune cell populations, followed by Lymphocytes. Neutrophils were less to count of the total cell population (<2%). CD14/CD16 was used to distinguish the macrophages M1 subset (CD14brightCD16dim/Bright) and M2 subset (CD14neg/dimCD16neg/ dim); SSC/CD3 was used to distinguish T cells from lymphocytes. Results are shown in Fig. 3. After Intraarticular;Hyaluronic acid; injection treatment, Lymphocytes increased a lot, while Macrophages decreased in the early stage, then increased after multiple injections, as Fig. 4 showed. In Macrophages, the proposition of M1 decreased in the early stage, then increased after multiple injections, while M2 increased consistently, as shown in Fig. 5. All samples were included to analysis, and we found that both M1(p=0.000) and M2(p=0.002) were positively associated with interleukin;-6. After removing an extreme value of interleukin;-8, both M1(p=0.000) and M2(p=0.000) were positively associated with interleukin;-8. Te relationships are shown in Fig. 6. interleukin;-6 was also positively associated with Neutrophils, but we will not consider its efectiveness because the number of Neutrophils was too small. Hyaluronic acid; is an alternative treatment for KOsteoarthritis; patients and our study showed pain relief and functional improvement in KOsteoarthritis; patients who took Intraarticular;Hyaluronic acid; treatment. Previous studies have showed that macrophages and T cells particularly infltrate Osteoarthritis; joints and associated with the increase of cytokines . In this study, we found that the synovial fuid of KOsteoarthritis; patients was orchestrated by macrophages (69%) and Lymphocytes (18%), and multiple infammatory cytokines, especially interleukin;-6 and interleukin;-8. Te proportion of Neutrophils was tiny, which was only 2%. Lymphocytes were mainly composed of T cells (86%). In Macrophages, the ratio of M1 to M2 was 6:4. Previous studies had also analyzed the cellular components of Social functioning;, and there were diferences between these studies. Ming-Feng Hsueh et. showed that in KOsteoarthritis; patients who were going to have a knee replacement, Social functioning; was mainly orchestrated by macrophages, neutrophils, and T cells, each accounting for about 30% . E. Kriegova et. showed that in KOsteoarthritis; patients, that proportion of cells was Lymphocytes (44.8%), Macrophage (14.8%), and Neutrophils (8%) . Te diference between those data may be related to the KOsteoarthritis; stage of the patient. Tat study of Ming-Feng Hsueh et. suggested that Neutrophils were involved in the progression of Osteoarthritis;, and Neutrophils may be signifcantly increased in patients with advanced Osteoarthritis; . Previous study also confrmed that Osteoarthritis; progression is characterized by a distinct infux of infammatory cells, and the infammatory pattern differs between diferent stage of KOsteoarthritis; . In our study, patients were relatively early, so the proportion of Neutrophils was less. Macrophages can generally be divided into proinfammatory M1 macrophages and regulatory M2 macrophages. M1 macrophages produce infammatory cytokines as an integral part of host defense, while M2 macrophages produce anti-infammatory cytokines . Some studies have shown that a high M1 to M2 ratio was strongly associated with pain and radiographic severity in knee arthritis patients . Our study showed macrophages changes after Hyaluronic acid; intra-articular injection: M1 decreased at frst, then increased slightly, while M2 increased relatively steadily. Te signifcant decrease of M1 after the frst treatment was following the law of immunosuppression. Te polarization of macrophages from M1 to M2 was associated with pain relief. However, the change of M1 and M2 was not linear. It may suggest that the strict classical subdivision of M1 and M2 macrophages might be questionable. M1 macrophages increased slightly after several injections. Immune tolerance may play a role in this phenomenon , for we also found a phenomenon that if the frst two injections were not efective, the follow-up efect was also not good. Abundant pro-infammatory cytokines were proved to be pathogenic. Studies have reported that up-regulating the expression of interleukin;-6 and interleukin;-8 were potentially involved in Osteoarthritis; progression . In this study, interleukin;-6 and interleukin;-8 decreased after the frst injection of Intraarticular;Hyaluronic acid;, especially interleukin;-6, which was the most variable cytokines. Te decrease of interleukin;-6 and interleukin;-8 suggested that Intraarticular;Hyaluronic acid; had an anti-infammatory function. However, the cytokines increased during the progress of injections, which may suggest that one cytokine was implicated in a large number of signal pathways, which was not just about one or two cytokines. Tis is one of the limitations that only fourteen cytokines were measured in our study. Te number of macrophages, both M1 and M2, were positively associated with interleukin;-6 and interleukin;-8. interleukin;-6 and interleukin;-8 can be synthesized by a variety of cells, including macrophages. Taken together, these fndings showed that Intraarticular;Hyaluronic acid; might play an infuential role in the production of interleukin;-6 and interleukin;-8 by macrophages through polarization. In recent study demonstrated that Social functioning; macrophages and Neutrophils were positively associated with interleukin;-6, which showed that interleukin;-6 is generally involved in Osteoarthritis; infammatory responses but may not be representative of a specifc cell type . Te synovial fuid of KOsteoarthritis; patients was orchestrated by macrophages (69%) and Lymphocytes (18%), and cytokines like interleukin;-6 and interleukin;-8. Hyaluronic acid; may play an anti-infammatory functional role through the decreased production of interleukin;-6 and interleukin;-8 by macrophages through polarization. Te results from this study partially revealed the efect of treatment in KOsteoarthritis; patients, and therapies targeting pathogenic cytokines and immune cells might be used to attenuate the knee joint infammation and release pain.