Knee Osteoarthritis; commonly affects the elderly and also adults in their 40s . The typical clinical symptoms of knee Osteoarthritis; include pain, joint stiffness, muscle weakness, impaired proprioception, and reduced joint motion, all of which can affect patients’ daily activities . With a projection of 250% increase of elderly population aged 65 years and above in Malaysia, Singapore, India, Bangladesh, and the Philippines over the next three decades , knee Osteoarthritis; will significantly impact the healthcare system . According to the Malaysian Clinical Practice for Osteoarthritis Management, 9.3% of adult Malaysians suffered from knee pain, and more than half of those examined had clinical evidence of Osteoarthritis; . Additionally, knee Osteoarthritis; patients are predisposed to a higher risk of falls than those without knee Osteoarthritis; . Worse still, falls can cast a severe impact on the elderly, leading to severe disability or even death . Hence, the prevention of Osteoarthritis; development and progression is vital among the elderly with knee Osteoarthritis;. Exercise intervention recommended by clinical guidelines is a crucial non-pharmacological management for knee Osteoarthritis; . Exercise intervention appears to be more effective in the early stage of knee Osteoarthritis; before the onset of significant structural damage . Several studies suggested that exercise intervention may improve pain, muscle activity, and strength and functional movement of Osteoarthritis; patients . Biomechanical factors such as gait velocity and knee adduction moment (Knee adduction moment;) are crucial indicators of Osteoarthritis; progression. However, much is not known regarding the effects of exercise on the lower limb biomechanics during gait and sit-to-stand (Sit-to-stand;) among mild knee Osteoarthritis; patients. To date, open kinetic chain (Open kinetic chain;) and closed kinetic chain (Closed kinetic chain;) exercises have been prescribed for knee Osteoarthritis; patients. During Open kinetic chain; exercise, the distal segment of the body parts is not fixed, and it can move freely. Knee extension in the sitting position and straight leg raising (Seated leg raise;) in the lying position are examples of Open kinetic chain; exercises. On the other hand, during Closed kinetic chain; exercise, the distal segment of body parts remains stationary on the ground. Examples of Closed kinetic chain; exercises include squat and leg press exercises. Both types of exercises were comparable in terms of their impact on improving pain scale, functional scores, and strength . Moreover, 12 weeks of Open kinetic chain;, Closed kinetic chain;, and its combination were found to significantly increase the static and dynamic quadriceps strength and thigh muscle bulk in a study that involved 96 patients with knee Osteoarthritis; . However, there is a lack of published studies that evaluate the impact of Open kinetic chain; and Closed kinetic chain; on the lower limb biomechanics during gait and Sit-to-stand;. Exercise intervention for Osteoarthritis; is usually conducted in the hospital or clinic under the supervision of physiotherapists. However, some patients might face logistics constraints in attending the exercise sessions . To improve the adherence to exercise program, the sessions can be relocated from the hospital to other settings such as at home and in the community . Apart from that, patient education is vital to improve the patients’ understanding of their current condition and to ensure compliance to exercise program and long-term selfmanagement at home . The primary aim of this randomized controlled trial (Randomized controlled trial;) is to compare the effects of home-based Open kinetic chain; and Closed kinetic chain; exercise intervention programs on pain (visual analog scale), disability scores (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index), and quality of life scores (Osteoarthritis Knee and Hip Quality of Life) among patients with mild knee Osteoarthritis;. Our secondary aim is to compare the effects of Open kinetic chain; and Closed kinetic chain; exercises on lower limb biomechanics during walking gait and Sit-to-stand; tasks. It is hypothesized that Open kinetic chain; and Closed kinetic chain; exercises will result in a significant reduction of pain as well as improved functions and quality of life after 8 weeks of intervention. We also hypothesize a small but clinically relevant change in their biomechanical variables following Open kinetic chain; and Closed kinetic chain; intervention. These changes may be significant when compared to the usual care group. This study is a randomized controlled trial (Randomized controlled trial;) comparing the effects of Closed kinetic chain; versus Open kinetic chain; versus the control group in patients with mild knee Osteoarthritis;. The effects to be measured include pain, disability, quality of life, and lower limb biomechanics. This protocol will be outlined as per the CONsolidated Standards of Reporting Trials (CONsolidated Standards of Reporting Trials;)  statement and reported as per Standard Protocol Items: Recommendations for Interventional Trials (Standard Protocol Items: Recommendations for Interventional Trials;) . The flowchart of the study protocol is shown in Fig. 1. All participants will be assigned randomly to one of the three groups (Closed kinetic chain;, Open kinetic chain;, or control groups) by an independent researcher. The allocation numbers will be generated by the study supervisor using a computerized random sequence. The 66 numbers will be inserted in opaque and sealed envelopes until a participant picks an envelope. The participants will then be allocated to the group stated in the envelope. A sealed copy of the randomization code listing will be kept by the study supervisor, and it will not be revealed until the study completion. Additionally, two research team members are designated as outcome assessors for the pre-and post-intervention tests. They will also be blinded to the group allocation and the statistical analyses. Participants will be reminded not to reveal their group allocation to the assessors. The study procedure will follow the Declaration of the Helsinki as approved by the Human Research Ethics Committee at the Universiti Sains Malaysia (JEPeM code: Universiti Sains Malaysia;/JEPeM/19100645). The protocol has been registered at clinicaltrial.gov (NCT04678609). The printed information sheet that explains this study will be given to the potential participants together with the consent form. These forms will be produced in a bilingual format in both Malay and English to ensure that all participants understand the research procedure. Participants will give their consent to start the pre-test and intervention sessions by signing the form. The form will also be signed by a witness and the researcher. The sample size was determined using G*Power statistical software version 3.1.9.2 (Universität Düsseldorf, Germany) based on the primary outcome variables of pain and function based on the visual analog scale (Visualanalogue scale;) scores as well as the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;) Index respectively. The sample size for this study was determined to detect an effect size of 0.5, based on a previous study  with an alpha value of 0.05. Eighteen participants per group will be sufficient to achieve a statistical power of 0.8. By anticipating a dropout rate of 20%, a total of 22 participants per group (total N = 66) will be recruited This study will apply purposive sampling for the recruitment of participants. Participants will be included if they:  Are diagnosed with symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis; as defined by the American College of Rheumatology’s Clinical Criteria for Classification and Reporting of knee Osteoarthritis;   Are diagnosed with Grade I and II knee Osteoarthritis; based on the Kellgren-Lawrence severity scale   Are female  Age 50 and older  Have body mass index (Body mass index;) between 18.5 and 29.9 kg/m2  Have knee pain ≥ two on a Visualanalogue scale; Participants with the following conditions will be excluded:  Electrical devices implant  Neurological disorders (i.e., stroke)  Wheelchair bound  Significant cognitive impairment  Present systemic inflammatory arthritis (i.e., gout)  History of hip or knee arthroplasty  History of trauma or surgical arthroscopy of either knee in the last 6 months  Received knee intra-articular injection within the last 3 months  Under anticoagulant therapy, recent or imminent surgery (within 3 months)  Involved in any study related to exercise program within the last 6 months In addition, eligible participants will be considered as drop-outs if they request to withdraw due to any reasons or if they are unable to complete 75% of the intervention program. Potential participants will first undergo general screening and radiographic screening by the orthopedic medical officer. Disease severity will be assessed using the Kellgren-Lawrence grading system. Pre- and postintervention assessments will be conducted by the assessors who are blinded to group allocation. These assessments (Fig. 1) will be completed at the sports science laboratory at Universiti Sains Malaysia (Universiti Sains Malaysia;). All participants will visit Universiti Sains Malaysia; four times over the 8-week intervention. All participants will also receive the usual care provided by Hospital Universiti Sains Malaysia; during the 8 weeks of the study, including medication such as pain killers and health education on Osteoarthritis;. All the data collection sheets, questionnaires, and printed data of the isokinetic strength test will be stored as hard copy, while the biomechanical data of the gait and Sit-to-stand; task will be stored as soft copy in a passwordprotected computer. Both hard and soft copy data will be stored in a locked room for maintaining security and privacy data. All authors will have access to the final dataset only. The schedule of the enrolment, intervention, and assessment is shown in Fig. 2. All the data collection sheets, questionnaires, and printed data of the isokinetic strength test will be stored as hard copy, while the biomechanical data of the gait and Sit-to-stand; task will be stored as soft copy in a passwordprotected computer. Both hard and soft copy data will be stored in a locked room for maintaining security and privacy data. All authors will have access to the final dataset only. The schedule of the enrolment, intervention, and assessment is shown in Fig. 2. For the Open kinetic chain; exercise group, participants will perform the following exercises three times a week (Fig. 3): 1) Straight leg raising in lying position; 2) Knee extension in sitting position; 3) Hip abduction in lying position; 4) Hip adduction in lying position. For the Closed kinetic chain; exercise group, participants will perform the following exercises three times a week (Fig. 4): 1) Terminal end knee extension in standing (maximum 15° of knee flexion) ; 2) Wall slide (semi squat); 3) Forward step up and down; 4) Side step up and down; For both Open kinetic chain; and Closed kinetic chain; groups, participants will perform all exercises for ten repetitions three times a week, for 8 weeks. Following that, if they consistently obtain less than three on the Visualanalogue scale; scale , they are encouraged to increase the intensity of the exercise by increasing the number of sets with the same repetitions for each exercise. All the participants will receive the usual care that includes health education about clinical manifestations, risk factors, diagnosis, treatment, and nursing care for knee Osteoarthritis;. However, only the participants in the control group will be given the printed materials of clinical education. Furthermore, the control group will not be exposed to any information related to exercise programs . After completing the trial, the participants in the control group will receive either Closed kinetic chain; or Open kinetic chain; exercises depending on their preference. Baseline data about participants’ age, gender, dominant leg, medical history, and medication history will be obtained through the questionnaires. The height (m) and weight (kg) of the participants will be measured with a digital medical scale (Seca 769, Hamburg, Germany). The body fat percentage will be measured by the Tanita Machine (TBF-410, Tanita Corporation, Tokyo, Japan). The leg length of the participants will be measured from the anterior superior iliac spine to the tip of the medial malleolus by using a measuring tape. Dominant feet will be identified by asking the participants which leg is used to kick a ball . All the measurements of leg length, height, body weight, and percentage of body fat will be recorded whereas body mass (Body mass index;) will be calculated. Pain intensity will be assessed using the (Visualanalogue scale;) . It is a reliable, valid, and responsive tool, and frequently used as an outcome measure for pain . It consists of a bidirectional 10 cm straight line, where 0 cm is “no pain,” and 10 cm is “worst imaginable pain,” located at either end of the line . Participants will be asked to choose a number that best represents their pain level. The Visualanalogue scale; scoring will be recorded at the baseline assessment, after every exercise session throughout the 8-week intervention, and lastly at the end of the intervention program. The Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;) Likert version 3.1 will be used to assess functional disability . The Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; includes 24 questions. Each question will be scored using five response options ranging from 0: none, 1: mild, 2: moderate, 3: severe, to 4: extreme . Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; is designed to assess the patients’ pain perception, stiffness, and disability. The scores will be summed within the three domains, giving a total score for pain (range: 0– 20), stiffness (range: 0–8), and disability (range: 0–68) . Higher scores indicate greater severity across the three domains . The Malay version of the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; (M-Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;) will be used in this study to better cater to the local cultural background and language spoken in the Malaysian population . Based on a survey that was conducted to test the reliability and validity of the M-Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; among 61 women aged 45– 65 years in Malaysia, the Cronbach’s alpha of 0.976 showed that the M-Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; was valid and reliable to be used among the local population with knee Osteoarthritis; . The Osteoarthritis Knee and Hip Quality of Life (Osteoarthritis;KHQOL) was developed to measure the quality of life, specifically among patients with hip and knee Osteoarthritis; . The Malay version of Osteoarthritis;KHQOL (M-Osteoarthritis;KHQOL) will be used in the present study because its cultural and language suitability for the Malaysian population . Abdul Kadir et al.  reported that the M-Osteoarthritis;KHQOL is a valid and reliable instrument to assess the healthrelated quality of life of knee Osteoarthritis; patients in the Malaysian population with Cronbach’s alpha values that ranged from 0.865 to 0.933. The questionnaire consists of 31 items that assess the physical activity (10 items), mental health (eight items), pain (four items), social support (three items), and social functioning (three items) as well as three additional items for relationship, sexual activity, and professional life. These three additional items are meant to be used separately , and they will be included in this Randomized controlled trial;. Each of the items will be rated on a scale of 0 to 10. The final score is the mean score of all the items. All the mean scores will be added together to generate a scale of 0 (best possible QOL) to 100 (worst possible QOL) . To capture the biomechanical variable, infrared cameras with three-dimensional (Three-dimensional;) motion capture and analysis system will be used. Kinetic data will be collected using the force platform (Bertec, Ohio, USA) to measure the ground reaction force and joint moments whereas the kinematic data will be collected by the infrared cameras at 100Hz using the Qualisys track manager software (Qualisys, Sweden) and VThree-dimensional; software (version 5, CMotion, Gothenburg, Sweden). Both the kinematic and kinetic data of the lower limb will be analyzed during the gait and Sit-to-stand; test . Sit-to-stand; is commonly used to assess the strength and balance of the lower extremities . Sit-to-stand; has been shown to have a great intra and inter-rater reliability (Interclass correlation coefcient;, 0.89) among hip and knee Osteoarthritis; patients . Isokinetic knee flexion/extension strength will be evaluated using Biodex Dynamometer (Biodex Medical System, Shirley, NY, USA). The data to be collected will include the peak torque and muscular power of the hamstring and quadriceps. The dynamometer and chair will be adjusted to the appropriate height and length of each participant. Then, belts will be strapped on the participants to stabilize their trunk, pelvis, and contralateral thigh. The quantification of knee flexion/extension strength will be performed at the angular velocity of 180°/s . The speed has been chosen because it is associated with a reduction in the friction between knee cartilage, knee irritation, and other symptoms during muscle strength measurement . To complete the measurement, all participants will perform each test in flexion/extension motion as hard as they can for five repetitions per set and two sets for both legs . As a co-intervention, daily oral nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug;s) in the form of PCM 3000 mg  are provided. However, the usage of the PCM is not compulsory. Participants can consume the PCM as per their needs and record the usage in the diary provided. The pain scale (Visualanalogue scale;) will also be recorded in the diary during the intervention period for all three groups of participants. Any adverse event during the intervention will be recorded in the provided diary. The participants will also be reminded to inform the physiotherapist immediately if they faced any problem during the eight weeks of the exercise program. The contact number is stated on the consent form. If necessary, the physiotherapist will contact the medical supervisor and co-supervisors for further investigation or management. An exercise diary will be provided to each participant from both Closed kinetic chain; and Open kinetic chain; groups to ensure their adherence to the prescribed exercise at home. Similarly, participants in the control group will also be given a diary to record their daily physical activities. Additionally, a telephone call or WhatsApplication message will be performed three times weekly throughout the 8-week intervention period to encourage the participants to adhere to their exercise program at home and to keep track of any adverse effects . Data will be entered and analyzed using SPSS version 25 (IBM Corp., Armonk, NY, USA). Only the data from the participants who have completed at least 75% of the study intervention will be analyzed. Data from drop outs will not be included in the analysis. Descriptive data will be reported as a mean ± standard deviation. Two-way Analysis of variance; will be used to test the within- and acrossgroup comparison of the Visualanalogue scale;, Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;, and Osteoarthritis;KHQOL scores, and isokinetic knee muscle strength, as well as lower limb biomechanics during gait and Sit-to-stand;. The level of significance is set at a p-value < 0.05. A least significant difference (LStandard deviation;) post hoc test will be conducted following any significant differences from the two-way Analysis of variance; test. The researcher will be responsible for monitoring all the subject enrollment, the reasons for dropping out, and the listing of all the adverse events to prepare all the relevant reports. The researcher will also arrange a follow-up appointment with the medical officer for any drop-out participants. Regular meetings will be held every 2 weeks between the study supervisor and researchers to monitor any adverse events from the exercise program and to ensure timely completion of participants’ recruitment. Close communication will be maintained between the assessors and researchers to monitor any problems that arise during the stages of data collection and intervention implementation. Lastly, the study supervisor will conduct monthly audits of the raw data collected, as well as the interventions in the clinical trial. Any protocol modifications that are required during the study period will be submitted to the Ethics Committee of the Universiti Sains Malaysia for approval before further implementation. The findings of this Randomized controlled trial; will be presented at relevant conferences and published in academic journals. All the participants will be informed about their summary findings after the completion of the study, Furthermore, participants in the control group will be taught either Open kinetic chain; or Closed kinetic chain; exercise program for their future training at home based on their preferences. All the participants will continue their follow-up with medical officers at the orthopedic clinic, hospital Universiti Sains Malaysia; for continuity of care. The prevention of knee Osteoarthritis; is different for each individual depending on their risk factors . Targeted individualized prevention techniques to ensure maximum adherence to the exercise program should be planned for each patient . To achieve this, it is crucial to involved knee Osteoarthritis; patients in the exercise program to understand their treatment preferences and improve their conditions. Apart from statistically significant differences between patient and control groups, other clinically significant differences can also be important when interpreting the trial results . A decrease of 2 points in the pain score and a decrease of 9.1 scores in the function subscale of the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument; questionnaire are examples of clinically relevant improvement . A mere 5% change in Knee adduction moment; was shown to improve Osteoarthritis; symptoms  which will be considered as a clinically relevant improvement of the Knee adduction moment; in this trial. The results from this trial will provide vital evidence on clinical and biomechanical outcomes following Open kinetic chain; and Closed kinetic chain; exercise programs in people with mild knee Osteoarthritis;. Additionally, this study will help in the formulation of effective home-based exercise protocols, especially for patients with mild knee Osteoarthritis;. The protocol was registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (registration number: NCT04678609). The recruitment of participants has started on 1 August 2020 and is still ongoing. The estimated completion date of recruitment is 30 June 2022 as a result of multiple movement restriction orders in Malaysia due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Abbreviations Osteoarthritis;: Osteoarthritis; Open kinetic chain;: Open kinetic chain; Closed kinetic chain;: Closed kinetic chain; Body mass index;: Body mass index; Sit-to-stand;: Sit-to-stand; Knee adduction moment;: Knee adduction moment; Randomized controlled trial;: Randomized controlled trial; CONsolidated Standards of Reporting Trials;: CONsolidated Standards of Reporting Trials; Standard Protocol Items: Recommendations for Interventional Trials;: Standard Protocol Items: Recommendations for Interventional Trials; Visualanalogue scale;: Visual analogue scale; Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;: Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index; Osteoarthritis;KHQOL: Osteoarthritis Knee and Hip Quality of Life; Hospital University Sains Malaysia;: Hospital University Sains Malaysia; Kellgren & Lawrence;: KellgrenLawrence; Universiti Sains Malaysia;: Universiti Sains Malaysia; M-Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;: Malay version of the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities osteoarthritis instrument;; M-Osteoarthritis;KHQOL: Malay version of Osteoarthritis;KHQOL; Three-dimensional;: Three-dimensional; 5Sit-to-stand;: Five-times-sit-to-stand test; LStandard deviation;: Least significant difference