Te global prevalence of osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) has been increasing from 247.51 million in 1990 to 527.81 million in 2019 particularly at the knee and hip sites. Osteoarthritis; of the knee contributed the most to the overall burden and has become the leading cause of disability . Current managements of osteoarthritis include pharmacological and non-pharmacological management. Tere are several medications to relieve pain, but there is no proven medication to slow the progression of the disease. Pain control is the cornerstone of the Osteoarthritis; treatment. Te 2019 Efect Size;CEO guideline recommended using oral symptomatic slow acting drugs for osteoarthritis (SYSADOsteoarthritis;) and acetaminophen as the frst line pain reliever. Oral non-steroidal anti-infammatory drugs (Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory Drug;s) are the second line drugs to be used with caution, because elderly patients usually have underlying diseases such as metabolic diseases, kidney diseases or cardiovascular diseases . Te 2019 Osteoarthritis Research Society International (Osteoarthritis;RSI) recommended using topical Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory Drug;s as the frst line, followed by oral Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory Drug;s and did not recommend the use of SYSADOsteoarthritis; . Several studies found that intraarticular (Intraarticular;) corticosteroids for example triamcinolone acetonide (TA), triamcinolone hexacetonide, methylprednisolone acetate and hydrocortisone improve symptoms in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee . Terefore, it was recommended by most guidelines  as the third line for pain control or for those with contraindication for other medications. However, there is no consensus for the proper dose and type of Intraarticular; corticosteroid for the treatment of symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis;. Several trials reported that 40 milligrams (mg) of triamcinolone intraarticular injection is efective in controlling pain in knee Osteoarthritis; . Although Intraarticular; corticosteroids demonstrated efcacies in relieving pain in knee Osteoarthritis; which allows patients to utilize the joints with minimal pain, there is an ongoing concern about the cartilage safety and long-term Osteoarthritis; progression. Furthermore, the catabolic efects of Intraarticular; corticosteroids might have negative efects to chondrocytes, which in turns results in long-term damage to the joints . McAlindon et al. reported that patients who received the 40 mg of Intraarticular; TA injection every 3 months for 2 years might have a greater cartilage volume loss than those who received saline intraarticular injection . Given the proven efcacies of Intraarticular; corticosteroid for knee Osteoarthritis; and the concerns about long-term joint damage, the lower dose of Intraarticular; corticosteroid could be efective in the treatment of knee Osteoarthritis;. Intraarticular triamcinolone 10 mg has been efectively used for the treatment of knee Osteoarthritis; in clinical practice. However, there has been no randomized controlled trial to demonstrate its efcacy. We performed a non-inferiority, multi-centered, randomized, double-blinded, controlled trial to compare between the efectiveness of Intraarticular; TA 10 mg with Intraarticular; TA40 mg for the treatment of osteoarthritis of the knee. Patients were recruited from outpatient clinics of rheumatology and orthopedics department at Phramongkutklao Hospital, Bangkok, and an outpatient clinic of orthopedics at Srinagarind Hospital, Khon Kaen, from 1 August 2019 to 28 February 2021. Eligible patients were 50 years of age or older who were diagnosed with primary osteoarthritis of knee (either monoliteral or bilateral) according to the American College of Rheumatology (American College of Rheumatology;) clinical classifcation criteria  with Kellgren-Lawrence radiographic severity grade 2–4  with moderate to severe pain defned as pain visual analog scale (pVisual analogue scale;) more than or equal to 40 mm. Patients were intolerant or not responsive to non-steroidal anti-infammatory drugs and indicated for Intraarticular; corticosteroid injection according to the 2019 American College of Rheumatology; Guideline for the Management of Osteoarthritis of the Hand, Hip, and Knee . Exclusion criteria were patients who had contraindication for Intraarticular; injection such as overlying skin and soft tissue infection, uncontrolled bleeding diathesis, had Intraarticular; glucocorticoid injection in the past 3 months, had Intraarticular; hyaluronic acid in the past 6 months, patients with secondary Osteoarthritis; due to infammatory arthritis, trauma or infection or history of knee replacement in the same joint and planning for knee surgery within 3 months. Tis was a non-inferiority, multi-centered, randomized, double-blinded, controlled trial. Tis study was approved by the Institutional Board Review of the Royal Tai Army Medical Department and Khon Kaen University (Approval number IRBRTA 700/2562 and HE621569) and was retrospectively registered at Tai clinical trials registry (TComputed tomography;R20210224002) and approved on 24/02/2021. Te study was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and followed the International Conference for Harmonization Guidelines for Good Clinical Practice. Written informed consent was obtained from each patient before study participation. Consecutive eligible patients in all sites who agreed to participate in the study were randomized by block of four by a study coordinator to receive intraarticular injection of either 10 mg of Triamcinolone acetonide (TA) (10 mg per milliliter, ml) or 40 mg (40 mg per ml) of TA. All TA were manufactured by L.B.S. Laboratory Limited. Te Intraarticular; TA injections were prepared by research nurses. Either 10 or 40 mg of TA was drawn into a syringe plus 3 ml of 1% lidocaine and then the syringe was taped to blind the investigators. Te knee joint injections were performed under sterile condition by a certifed rheumatologist (SC) or certifed orthopedists (OP and Rheumatoid arthritis;) with the same technique (suprapatellar approach). Te synovial fuid, if present, was maximally removed prior to the Intraarticular; corticosteroid injection. Synovial fuid was analyzed for cell count and crystals. Patients were assessed for the pain by visual analog scale (pVisual analogue scale;:0–10), global visual analog scale (gVisual analogue scale;:0– 10), modifed Tai version of the Western Ontario and McMaster osteoarthritis index (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index) pain subscale range, 0 -10 , the stifness subscale range, 0 -10 , the joint usage subscale range, 0 -10  , Tai version of Knee and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score;) , EuroQuartiles;uality of life; five dimension;-5L , 20-m walk time and chair stand test at baseline, 4 weeks and 12 weeks after randomization. Te primary outcome was the diferences in changes in pVisual analogue scale; between baseline and week 12 between the two treatment groups. Acetaminophen at the maximum dose of 3 g per day with a 12-h washout before each follow-up visit was ofered as a rescue for pain. Te numbers of a 500 mg of acetaminophen tablet used were recorded at each visit. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory Drug;s and oral glucocorticoid were not allowed during the study. Adverse events were recorded from screening to the end of the study. Injection site pain, acute pseudoseptic or septic arthritis and bleeding were recorded at the baseline visit. During the COVID-19 pandemic, if patients were not able to come to the hospital, questionnaires were sent to patients and returned to the researchers by postal or electronic mails. At baseline visit, patients and their caregivers were instructed by the research assistant and a standard short video how to perform a chair stand test and record a 20-m walk time. Te sample size was calculated based on the primary outcome (the diferences in the change in pVisual analogue scale; between randomization and week 12). From the meta-analysis by Juni P, et al., , the mean diferences in pVisual analogue scale; before and after intraarticular injection were -2.8 cm and -1.8 cm with the standard deviation (Standard deviation;) of 1.84 in the glucocorticoid and placebo groups, respectively. From the previous randomized controlled study which examined efcacy of rofecoxib, ibuprofen and placebo, the minimal perceptible clinical improvement for Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index pain was about 10 mm from the 100 mm normalized Visual analogue scale; . Terefore, the non-inferiority margin was set as 10 out of 100 mm for pVisual analogue scale;. A type I error risk was set at 5% with an 80% power, which gave the sample size as 42 patients for each group. Te statistical analyses were performed by pre-defned intention-to-treat (Intent-To-Treat;) and per protocol (PP) analyses. Baseline characteristics were analyzed using descriptive statistics. Categorical data are presented as number and percentage. Continuous variables are presented as mean and Standard deviation;. Te diferences in pain Visual analogue scale;, global Visual analogue scale;, Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index score, Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score; score and EQuartiles;5D between baseline, fourth week and twelfth week were compared by independent t test, Chi-square test and generalized estimating equation (Generalized estimating eq.;). All statistical analyses were performed by using STATA 17. Statistical signifcance was defned as p-value<0.05. Eighty-four patients were enrolled in this study and the Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials; diagram was shown in Fig. 1. One hundred and ffty-four patients were screened. Seventy patients met the exclusion criteria. Six patients declined to participate. Eighty-four patients were enrolled and randomized into two groups (42 patients in each group) to receive Intraarticular; TA 10 mg or 40 mg. All patients completed baseline, week 4 and week 12 visits. Tus, the Intent-To-Treat; and PP analyzed were similar. Baseline demographic and clinical characteristics were similar between two groups. Radiographic severity was similar between two groups. Baseline characteristics of all participants are summarized in Table 1. Most were women (66%), moderately overweight (body mass index 26.4±2.9 kg/m2) with a mean (Standard deviation;) age of 66.9 (10.2) years old. About 45% of patients had knee Osteoarthritis; severity grade IV according to the modifed Kellgren-Lawrence radiographic scoring. Knee Osteoarthritis; was unilateral in half of the patients. Most of them had a uni-compartmental tibiofemoral Osteoarthritis; (67.5%) without associated patellofemoral pain syndrome (75.0%). Tere were no diferences in baseline osteoarthritis pain, disease severity, quality of life and function as measured by pVisual analogue scale;, gVisual analogue scale;, modifed Tai version of Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index, Tai version of Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score;, EuroQuartiles;uality of life; five dimension;-5L, 20-m walk time and chair stand between two groups. Tose data were summarized in Table 2. As shown in Fig. 2 the mean diference (95% Confidence interval;) of pVisual analogue scale; between 10 and 40 mg group at week 12 and baseline was 0.8 (-0.8, 2.4) with p-value of 0.002 for non-inferiority and 0.34 for superiority. Te 10 mg Intraarticular; TA injection is non-inferior to 40 mg Intraarticular; TA injection for the treatment of painful knee osteoarthritis.Both 10 and 40 mg TA signifcantly improved pVisual analogue scale; at week 12 compared to baseline. Te mean diferences (95%Confidence interval;) in pVisual analogue scale; scores at week 12 and baseline were -2.2 (-2.3, -2.1) and -1.4 (-1.5, -1.3) in 10 mg and 40 mg groups, respectively and the p-values were<0.001 in both groups. Te efcacy data of 10 and 40 mg TA intraarticular were reported in detail in Table 3. Te signifcant improvement in pain was observed at weeks 4 and 12 in both groups. Mean (95%Confidence interval;) diferences of pain domain in Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index and Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score; at baseline and at week 12 in 10 mg TA group were -1.2 (-1.3, -1.1) and 12.8 (11.9, 13.7), respectively and in 40 mg TA group were -0.8 (-0.9, -0.6), 4.1 (2.7, 5.4), respectively. Te mean (95%Confidence interval;) diferences in gVisual analogue scale; scores at baseline and week 12 were -1.5 (-1.6, -1.4) and -1.2 (-1.3, -1.0) in 10 mg TA group and 40 mg TA group respectively. Te mean (95%Confidence interval;) diference in total Tai Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index score at baseline and week 12 were -1.2 (-1.3, -1.1) and -0.7 (-0.8, -0.6) in 10 mg TA group and 40 mg TA group respectively. Tere were signifcant improvements in quality of life between baseline and at week 4 and 12 in both groups. Mean (95%Confidence interval;) diferences of EQuartiles;5D and Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score; quality of life at baseline and at week 12 in 10 mg TA group were 4.7 (3.9, 5.5), 12.5 (10.4, 14.6) and in 40 mg TA group were 5.9 (4.6, 7.3), 14.2 (12.9, 15.6). Te mean (Standard deviation;) diferences in Tai Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcomes Score; scores at baseline and week 12 in both groups were similar in all outcome domain assessments. Te efcacies of TA 10 and 40 mg intraarticular as measured by Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index pain subscale, Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index stifness subscale, EQuartiles;5D and gVisual analogue scale; are shown in Fig. 3. Tere were no diferences between two groups in the changes of functional assessment measured by the time to 20-m walk and the chair standing test between baseline and at week 4 and week 12. Patients in a 40 mg group walked faster at week 12 as compared to baseline with the mean diference of -6.8 (-10.1, -3.5) seconds. However, there was no diference in the time to 20-m walk between at baseline and at week 12 in the 10 mg group with the mean diference of the time to 20-m walk at week 12 compared with baseline was 0.4 (-1.4, 2.1) seconds. Tere were no diferences in the chair stand test at baseline and at week 12 within and between groups. Te proportion of patients who need acetaminophen as a rescue therapy were similar between two groups (24% in 10 mg TA group, and 33% in 40 mg TA group; p-value 0.33) with the average use of 14 tablets per 12 weeks for both groups. No serious adverse events such as infection, severe bleeding or pseudo-septic reaction were reported during the study. Tis study was the frst randomized controlled trial which compared the efcacy of Intraarticular; 10 mg and 40 mg TA injection for the treatment of symptomatic knee osteoarthritis. Tis trial reported the non-inferiority of the 10 mg TA compared with the 40 mg TA to reduce pain in patients with knee osteoarthritis. Both 10 mg and 40 mg TA were efective to relieve pain, improve function, quality of life and global assessment in patients with symptomatic knee osteoarthritis. Patients in this study represent severe symptomatic knee osteoarthritis patients in a real-life practice who are indicated to receive Intraarticular; glucocorticoid. Te majority of patients are elderly, female and overweight. However, patients in this study are Asian which have lower body mass index compared to previous trials conducted in the Western countries . Patients in this study are in the late stage of knee Osteoarthritis; since about half of them had Kellgren-Lawrence radiographic severity grade 4 and about one-third of them had joint efusion. Te baseline pain Visual analogue scale; and Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index pain subscales are comparable to other knee osteoarthritis trials . Tere was no published recommendation on the intraarticular dosages and type of glucocorticoid to treat symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis;. Various types and dosages of Intraarticular; glucocorticoids were previously investigated to treat symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis; such as TA, triamcinolone hexatonide, methylprednisolone, prednisolone acetate, dexamethasone phosphate, and hydrocortisone. Te most investigated Intraarticular; glucocorticoid for the treatment of symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis; is triamcinolone. It is still unclear whether the efcacy of intraarticular glucocorticoid for the treatment of symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis; is dose dependent. Te dose of 40 mg was examined in many previous studies and shown to be more efective to reduce pain as compared to normal saline intraarticular . Popma et al. conducted a 12-week randomized controlled trial in 2015, and compared the efcacy of 40 mg TA with a higher dose (80 mg TA) for the treatment of symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis; patients . He reported that a higher dose of TA had no additional beneft. Te lowest dose of intraarticular triamcinolone examined to treat symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis; is 20 mg of triamcinolone hexatonide. However, the benefts of 20 mg triamcinolone hexatonide intraarticular over placebo was evidenced only at weeks 1–2, but not at weeks 4–6 of follow-up. Te authors concluded that 20 mg of triamcinolone hexatonide provided only short-term pain relief for knee Osteoarthritis; . Another study examined diferent doses of rimexolone intraarticular which reported that rimexolone 20 and 40 mg intraarticular were superior to placebo to improve all clinical variables, while rimexolone 10 mg intraarticular was only improved joint tenderness . From the real-world data, a survey among members of the American College of Rheumatology; reported that the most used glucocorticoids for intraarticular, bursa and tendon sheath injection for diverse indications including osteoarthritis are triamcinolone and methylprednisolone, and the dose of 40 mg is the most used . Terefore, 40 mg TA intraarticular injection was selected as the standard treatment in this study. However, 40 mg of TA intraarticular injection every 3 months for 2 years can decrease cartilage volume, which in turns, cause progression of knee Osteoarthritis; . Te data from the Cochrane meta-analyses reported the beneft of Intraarticular; glucocorticoid for symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis; peaks at 2–4 weeks and wanes overtime with the moderate benefts after 1 to 2 weeks, small to moderate after 4 to 6 weeks, small after 13 weeks, and no evidence of any benefts at 26 weeks . However, to prove the non-inferiority of the lower (10 mg) dose of triamcinolone to the higher dose (40 mg), we chose a 12-week follow-up time as the primary endpoint since at the shorter follow-up time (1–6 weeks), both doses might be similarly efective and longer follow-up time might be more appropriate to determine the diference in the efcacy between the two doses. Tis study assessed various outcomes in symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis; including pain, quality of life, and function. A 10 mg Intraarticular; TA was not inferior to a 40 mg in improving pVisual analogue scale; in patients with symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis;. Tere were no diferences in other secondary outcomes. However, patients in a 40 mg TA group, not in a 10 mg group, walked faster at week 12 compared to baseline. However, there was no diference between the two groups. Tere are a few limitations in this study. First, due to COVID-19 pandemic, some patients could not come to the hospital at a follow-up visit. However, the coordinator informed all patients and their family about how to perform a chair stand test and record a time to 20-m walk. Te questionnaires were sent and returned electronically. Secondly, the long-term cartilage volume loss with 10 mg TA intraarticular was not examined, therefore, we cannot conclude that a 10 mg TA has less damage to the cartilage compared to a 40 mg TA. A further study with cartilage volume as a primary endpoint is warranted. Tirdly, this study had no placebo, thus, it could be inconclusive whether the efcacy of TA is from the TA itself or placebo efect. Fourthly, this study was conducted in only two centers in the same country. A 10 mg of TA Intraarticular; injection provided non-inferior pain relief for symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis;, as compared to a 40 mg of TA Intraarticular; injection. The 10 mg of TA injection could be a safer option to treat symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis; than a commonly used 40 mg of TA intraarticular. Both 10 and 40 mg TA intraarticular are effective to reduce pain and improve quality of life of patients with symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis;.