Osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;), one of the most common diseases of the musculoskeletal system, is a leading cause of disability and a source of societal cost among older adults . In recent years, this burdensome syndrome has become more prevalent because of the combined efects of an aging and increasingly obese population . Moreover, a widespread increased in cross-ft training, weightlifting, and powerlifting has elevated the probability of joint injury in young people, which is an important risk factor for the development of Osteoarthritis; . Impairment of larger joints, such as the knee and hip, can lead to the need for joint replacement surgery. Terefore, impairments in these joints are considered to result in severe disability. High body mass index (Body mass index;) is an important contributor to death and disability-adjusted life years (Disability-adjusted life years;), and its burden has increased substantially in recent years . Ranges of overweight and obese, commonly identifed as a Body mass index; of 25-29.9 kg/m2 and Body mass index; ≥ 30 kg/ m2 , respectively, have been acknowledged as an important modifable risk factor for the occurrence and progression of Osteoarthritis; . A population-based study reported that the knee was the most common location for occurrence of Osteoarthritis;, followed by the hip in the population aged ≥45 years . However, at present, very few published studies have investigated the burden of knee and hip Osteoarthritis; resulting from a high Body mass index;. Terefore, this study aimed to systematically summarize the trends of knee and hip Osteoarthritis; in China and the United States.A between 1990 and 2019 using the Global Burden of Disease Study (Global Burden of Disease Study;) 2019. Te Global Burden of Disease Study; 2019 collected epidemiological data on the burden of 359 diseases and injuries (including incidence, prevalence, mortality, years lost due to disability , years of life lost, and Disability-adjusted life years; rates) and 84 risk factors in 204 countries and territories by sex and age group, using a wide range of standardized analytical procedures, including data screenings, data adjustments, and DisMod-MR 2.1 (a Bayesian meta-regression tool) estimations . As there was no evidence of cause-specifc mortality associated with Osteoarthritis;, the Disability-adjusted life years; for Osteoarthritis; did not consider mortality. Terefore, the values found for Years lost due to disability; and Disability-adjusted life years; were essentially the same for Osteoarthritis;. Disability weights were obtained from general population-based surveys . Details on the severity levels for Osteoarthritis; in Global Burden of Disease Study; 2019 and the associated disability weight (DW) with that severity level are described as follows: (I) Mild (DW, 0.023, 95% confdence interval (Confdence interval.), 0.013– 0.037): pain in the leg, which causes some difculty in running, walking long distances, and getting up and down. (II) Moderate (DW, 0.079, 95%Confdence interval., 0.054–0.110): moderate pain in the leg, which makes the person limp, and causes some in difculty walking, standing, lifting and carrying heavy things, getting up and down, and sleeping. (III) Severe (DW, 0.165, 95%Confdence interval., 0.112–0.232): severe pain in the leg, which makes the person limp and causes a lot of difculty walking, standing, lifting and carrying heavy things, getting up and down, and sleeping. Moreover, the Osteoarthritis; summary exposure value scalar combines the exposure measures for risks estimated to impinge on Osteoarthritis; in Global Burden of Disease Study;. Global Burden of Disease Study; 2019 identifed a high Body mass index;, which was defned as Body mass index;≥25 kg/m2 , as a risk factor for Osteoarthritis;. For this study, we obtained data on the prevalence, the Disability-adjusted life years; rates of knee and hip Osteoarthritis;, and the burden of knee and hip Osteoarthritis; due to a high Body mass index; using the Global Health Data Exchange query tool (http://ghdx. healthdata.org/gbd-results-tool). A wide range of clinical researchers can get help because the Global Burden of Disease Study; data can be downloaded free of charge. Te Global Burden of Disease Study; study methods followed the Guidelines for Accurate and Transparent Health Estimates Reporting (GATHER) recommendations . Tis study did not require ethical approval . To avoid the diference in age compositions of the population, the age-standardized prevalence and agestandardized Disability-adjusted life years; rate were used to quantify the difference in the burden of knee and hip Osteoarthritis; by historical period and sex. Te Joinpoint regression analysis was used to determine the temporal trend changes. Joinpoint is statistical software for the analysis of trends using Joinpoint models. Te program starts with the minimum number of joinpoints and tests whether more joinpoints are statistically signifcant and must be added to the model. Te annual percent change (Annual percent change; AAPC: Average annual percent change;) was calculated for each segmented line regression with a maximum Joinpoint of three, and the average Annual percent change; AAPC: Average annual percent change; (AAnnual percent change; AAPC: Average annual percent change;) was calculated for the entire period . Te age-standardized rate was deemed to be in an increasing (decreasing) trend when Annual percent change; AAPC: Average annual percent change; and its 95% Confdence interval. were both > 0 (< 0). Te trend was considered stable if the 95% Confdence interval. overlapped with zero. All statistical analyses were performed using the Joinpoint Regression Program (version 4.9.0.0, Statistical Methodology and Applications Branch, Surveillance Research Program, National Cancer Institute), and P-values < 0.05 were considered signifcant. The trends in the age-standardized prevalence of knee and hip Osteoarthritis; from 1990 to 2019 by sex in China and the United States.A are shown in Fig. 1. For knee Osteoarthritis;, the age-standardized prevalence was higher in women from China than those from the United States.A. However, for hip Osteoarthritis;, the age-standardized prevalence in China was lower than that of the United States.A. Sex-specific Joinpoint regression analyses for knee and hip Osteoarthritis; are shown in Tables 1 and 2, respectively. For men and women from China, trends in age-standardized prevalence of knee Osteoarthritis; showed slight decrease from 1990 to 2000, large increase from 2000 to 2005, slight increase from 2005 to 2014 for women, and slight decrease from 2014 to 2019 The increasing trends in age-standardized prevalence of hip Osteoarthritis; were higher in men (AAnnual percent change; AAPC: Average annual percent change; 1.1; 95% Confdence interval. 1.0, 1.3) and women (AAnnual percent change; AAPC: Average annual percent change; 1.0; 95% Confdence interval. 0.9, 1.2) from China than that of men (AAnnual percent change; AAPC: Average annual percent change; 0.6; 95% Confdence interval. 0.3, 1.0) and women (AAnnual percent change; AAPC: Average annual percent change; 0.9; 95% Confdence interval. 0.5, 1.2) from the United States.A. Te trends in the age-standardized Disability-adjusted life years; rates of knee and hip Osteoarthritis; from 1990 to 2019 by sex in China and the United States.A are shown in Fig. 2. Te trends of Disability-adjusted life years; rates were almost the same as the prevalence trends. Tese results were further confrmed by Joinpoint regression analyses, which are shown in Tables 1 and 2. Te age-standardized Disability-adjusted life years; rates per 10,0000 population for knee and hip Osteoarthritis; by age in China and the United States.A in 1990 and 2019 are shown in Fig. 3. For the age categories of 30–34years to 90–94years in 2019, the age-standardized Disability-adjusted life years; rates frst increased and then decreased after approximately 65–69years for men from China, 75–79years for men and women from the United States.A and for women from China with knee Osteoarthritis;. For hip Osteoarthritis;, the age-standardized Disability-adjusted life years; rates increased in each age group in China and frst increased followed by a decrease after approximately 75–79years in the United States.A. trends in the age-standardized Disability-adjusted life years; rates of knee and hip Osteoarthritis; due to a high Body mass index; from 1990 to 2019 by sex in China and the United States.A are shown in Fig. 4. Te trends in the Disability-adjusted life years; rates of knee Osteoarthritis; due to a high Body mass index; have shown a steady and large increase in China, while the trends frst showed an increase followed by a large decrease near 2001-2005 and fnally a steady increase in the United States.A. Te trends in the Disability-adjusted life years; rates of hip Osteoarthritis; due to a high Body mass index; have shown a steady and large increase in men and women in China and the United States.A from 1990 to 2019. In the Joinpoint regression analyses, this increasing trend was more pronounced among men and women from China than those from the United States.A (Tables 1 and 2). Te age-standardized Disability-adjusted life years; rates per 100,000 population for knee and hip Osteoarthritis; due to a high Body mass index; by age in China and the United States.A in 1990 and 2019 are shown in Fig. 5. For the comparison by age categories from 30 to 34 years to 90–94 years in 2019, the age-standardized Disability-adjusted life years; rates frst increased and then decreased after 60–64 years for both men and women in China and 70-74 years of age for both men and women in the United States.A for knee Osteoarthritis;, respectively. For hip Osteoarthritis;, the age-standardized Disability-adjusted life years; rates frst increased and then decreased after 70–74 years in both men and women from China and the United States.A. Tis study mainly explored the long-term trends in the burden of knee and hip Osteoarthritis; due to a high Body mass index; in China and the United States.A, using Joinpoint regression analyses. Our results revealed that the burden of knee and hip Osteoarthritis; due to a high Body mass index; is substantially increasing in China and the United States.A in recent years. The burden of Osteoarthritis; for individuals includes restricted activity, pain, and a marked decline in the quality of life. For various high-income countries, the medical cost of Osteoarthritis; accounts for 1–2.5% of the gross domestic product . Notably, knee Osteoarthritis; accounts for approximately 85% of the global burden of Osteoarthritis; . A positive association between the risk of knee Osteoarthritis; and Body mass index; was found in a national study of individuals aged 45–85 years, and an increasing strength of this association was found with a higher Body mass index; , which is supported by other studies . Moreover, a dose– response relationship between Body mass index; and the clinical and functional consequences of knee Osteoarthritis; was found in a larger cross-sectional study, suggesting that strategies for treating knee Osteoarthritis; should vary depending on the severity of obesity . For hip Osteoarthritis;, obesity is a less pronounced risk factor, but hip deformities strongly increase the risk of Osteoarthritis; . Studies investigating the association of Body mass index; with hip Osteoarthritis; have drawn contradictory conclusions, and some studies have confrmed that Body mass index; is signifcantly associated with hip Osteoarthritis; , whereas others did not . Te null correlation was possibly the result of the hip joint being less sensitive to obesity than the knee . However, our data showed that the growth rate of hip Osteoarthritis; caused by a high Body mass index; was signifcantly higher than that of knee Osteoarthritis;. Compared with other risk factors for Osteoarthritis;, such as age, sex, and joint damage, a high Body mass index; is a modifable and easier to manage risk factor. Weight loss strategies are efective in preventing the onset of Osteoarthritis; in obese individuals and those at an increased risk of developing Osteoarthritis; . Our data showed a signifcant trend of heavy burden due to a high Body mass index; for both knee and hip Osteoarthritis;. Recent guidelines for the management of Osteoarthritis; strongly recommend weight loss for patients with knee or hip Osteoarthritis; who are overweight or obese . A wide range of underlying pathways have been proposed that lead to similar outcomes of joint destruction during the Osteoarthritis; process, including increased mechanical overload, metabolic alterations, inflammatory components, and cell senescence . The exact mechanism underlying the causal effects of Body mass index; on Osteoarthritis; remains unclear. A possible explanation is that the joint load of may increase in individuals with high Body mass index;, which accelerates axial loading onto articular surfaces and the occurrence and aggravation of Osteoarthritis; . Another explanation is that the development of obesity-induced inflammation can increase the intermediates produced by lipid metabolism eventually leading to Osteoarthritis; . Despite these possibilities, further search is needed to explore the molecular mechanism underlying the effects of obesity on development of Osteoarthritis; in the future. This study provides comprehensive estimates of the burden of knee and hip Osteoarthritis; due to a high Body mass index; in China and the United States.A. Moreover, as one of the most important observation indicators, we used the Joinpoint regression model to determine temporal trends during the entire period and each segmental period. However, this study has some limitations. First, the Global Burden of Disease Study; data were not original data and relied on models. Thus, the Global Burden of Disease Study; used standardized tools to improve the accuracy of the results. Second, the data for those aged 0–29 years were not analyzed because the burden of knee and hip Osteoarthritis; due to a high Body mass index; was negligible in these population. Third, urban- or rural-stratified results were not analyzed because of limited data. Further studies are needed to distinguish the differences between urban and rural burdens of Osteoarthritis;. In summary, the burden of knee and hip Osteoarthritis; due to a high Body mass index; is substantially increasing in China and the United States.A in recent years. Researchers and health policy makers should assess the changing patterns of high Body mass index; on the burden of Osteoarthritis; and devise corresponding weight-control strategies.