Osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) Biomarkers Network, which was funded by National Institute of Health (National Institute of Health;) and developed as a partnership with Osteoarthritis Research Society International (Osteoarthritis;RSI) and the Arthritis Foundation, proposed the BIPEDS biomarker classification (Burden of disease, Investigative, Prognostic, Efficacy of intervention, Diagnosis of the Disease and Safety of interventions) which suggests the optimal study design and analytic methods for use in Osteoarthritis; investigations . Burden of disease markers assess the severity of disease within a particular joint among individuals with Osteoarthritis; typically at a single point in time. Studies of burden of disease markers require comparison with one or more gold standard methods, such as radiography, of determining disease severity . The serum level of hyaluronic acid (sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range;) is a potential biomarker for the establishment of a proper management system in knee Osteoarthritis;. Although sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; has been reported to be a useful burden of disease marker in Osteoarthritis; , it is still far from being practical. The reference intervals for a biomarker must be established before the marker can be adequate and useful for clinical interpretation. The International Federation of Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine (International Federation of Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicinel;) and Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute;) have defined reference intervals as the interval between two reference limits. In most cases, reference intervals are designated as the interval between and including two numbers, an upper and lower reference limit, which are estimated to enclose a specified percentage (usually 95%) of the values for a population from which the reference subjects are drawn . The purpose of this study was to establish the reference intervals of sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; corresponding to the radiographic severity of knee Osteoarthritis; in order to allow sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; to become a more practical biomarker in knee Osteoarthritis;. This prospective cohort study protocol was approved by the institutional review board of Juntendo University and conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki. All patients provided their written informed consent before enrollment in this trial. Three-hundred seventy-six women ranging in age from 48 to 86 years (mean 69.1) with knee pain were recruited. Patients with knee pain complained pain in the medial femorotibial compartment of the studied knee on most days of the month prior to examination and removal of body fluids. None of the patients had experienced any traumatic episodes during this period. They fulfilled the criteria of knee Osteoarthritis; of the medial femorotibial joint as defined by the American College of Rheumatology (American College of Rheumatology;) criteria . As several other factors, such as impaired renal, hepatic function and corticosteroid usage, affect serum Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; levels, patients who had these diseases were excluded. Standing, extended and antero-posterior view, and lateral and skyline view radiographs were taken at the first visit. The staging of knee Osteoarthritis; based on radiographic examination was assessed using Kellegren and Laurence (Kellegren and Laurence;) grading. The patients included 54 with Kellegren and Laurence; grade 1, 96 with Kellegren and Laurence; grade 2, 97 with Kellegren and Laurence; grade 3, and 118 with Kellegren and Laurence; grade 4 based on the weight-bearing anteroposterior radiographs. Serum samples were obtained from all subjects on the day that radiographs taken. As there is a diurnal variation in Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; levels , fasting blood samples were collected at late morning-early afternoon for serum analyses. The serum samples were stored at -80°C until analysis. sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; was measured using an Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; binding protein based latex agglutination assay (Chugai Diagnostics, Tokyo, Japan) that employed an ELISA format and the intra-assay and interassay variation were less than 5%. The analyses were performed using SPosterior  stabilized;S ver.17 (SPosterior  stabilized;S Inc., Chicago, IL). The normality of the distribution of each group was tested by Kolmogorov-Smirnoc statistics. A correlation analysis was conducted by Spearman’s correlation coefficient. Parametric comparisons were necessary for the age and body mass index (Body mass index;) adjusted one way analysis of variance (Adjusted one way analysis of variance;). However, as sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; levels of the patients did not show normal distribution, they were logarithmically transformed (Logarithmically transformed sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range;;) and the age and Body mass index; adjusted one way Adjusted one way analysis of variance; was conducted. Significant differences were evaluated if Adjusted one way analysis of variance; was significant. The significance of individual differences was evaluated using the Bonferroni t method. A p-value of less than 0.05 was considered to be statistically significant. The age of the patients was significantly increased depending upon the progression of the disease (Kellegren and Laurence; grades) (r=0.46, Figure 1), as reported previously . The Body mass index; of the patients with either Kellegren and Laurence; grade 1 or 2 were significantly different from those with Kellegren and Laurence; grade 3 and 4, respectively. The Logarithmically transformed sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range;; levels of the subjects with Kellegren and Laurence; grade 4 were significantly increased in comparison to those with Kellegren and Laurence; grade 1, 2 and 3, respectively (Table 1). On the other hand, no significant difference of the Logarithmically transformed sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range;; levels were observed between the subjects with Kellegren and Laurence; grade 3 and those with Kellegren and Laurence; grade 1 and 2 (Table 1). There were no significant differences of the Logarithmically transformed sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range;; levels between the subjects with Kellegren and Laurence; grade 1 and grade 2 (Table 1). The means and 95% confidence interval (Confdence interval.) of Logarithmically transformed sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range;; were reversed into constant sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; and the age and Body mass index; adjusted reference intervals for sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; corresponding to the patients with Kellegren and Laurence; grade 1 to 4 were calculated (Table 2). The reference intervals for sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; corresponding to the patients with Kellegren and Laurence; grade 1, 2 and 3 overlapped considerably. However, the reference interval of sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; corresponding to the patients with Kellegren and Laurence; grade 4 did not show any overlap between those with any other grades (Table 2). No biomarkers have so far been established as accepted tools for characterizing the status of Osteoarthritis; . This is particularly due to the fact that there are no biomarkers in Osteoarthritis; that can characterize the disease state in an individual patient . In addition, the burden of disease markers can be used only for clinical studies because individual values obtained in groups of patients with different degrees of Osteoarthritis; burden overlap considerably . A reexamination of the approach for reporting biomarker results was proposed to overcome this problem , and this study was conducted to determine whether sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; levels could be employed as a burden of disease marker for individual patients by estimating the reference intervals of sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; levels corresponding to the radiographic severity of knee Osteoarthritis;. The results revealed that the reference intervals of sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; in patients with severe knee Osteoarthritis; (Kellegren and Laurence; grade 4) can be estimated without overlap, while those of the patients with primary to moderate Osteoarthritis; (Kellegren and Laurence; grade 1 to 3) overlapped, considerably. These findings indicate that sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; can be available as a burden of disease marker for severe (Kellegren and Laurence; grade 4) knee Osteoarthritis; patients and cannot for primary to moderate (Kellegren and Laurence; grade 1, 2, and 3) knee Osteoarthritis; patients. A measured or observed laboratory test, such as biomarker, are established when a person (usually a patient) is compared with a reference interval for the purpose of making a medical diagnosis, therapeutic management decision, or other physiological assessment. The interpretation of clinical laboratory data is, therefore, a comparative decision-making process. This decision making process requires reliable reference intervals for the biomarkers . Therefore, the establishment of the reference intervals for sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; may be useful to predict the prognosis of the disease in an individual patient, because sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; has been reported to be a biomarker that can predict the prognosis of the disease , although further study is necessary. The burden of disease biomarkers indicates the extent or severity of disease, and therefore such biomarkers can be considered to be useful tools for the staging of the disease . The sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; level has been reported to be a biomarker of radiographic knee Osteoarthritis; . In general, the severity of Osteoarthritis; increases with age, and the sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; level was increased with age in our study (Figure 1). It is impossible to exclude the possibility that an overlap of the reference intervals for the sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; levels corresponding to the patients with Kellegren and Laurence; grade 1, 2 and 3 may be due to the influence of the extent of the disease in other joints . However, even though the level in patients with Kellegren and Laurence; grade 4 must be affected by the extent of the disease in other joints, no overlap was shown for the reference interval of the sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; level corresponding to the patients with Kellegren and Laurence; grade 4. The sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; level has been reported to be a biomarker not only of the burden of disease, but also as a marker of disease progression . Therefore, the result of this study could be meaningful, as we were able to identify the patients with progressive Osteoarthritis; using the sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; level, in addition to examining the radiographic severity of Osteoarthritis; because we cannot distinguish the patients with progressive Osteoarthritis; from those without using solely radiography . For example, the sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range;, in addition to the radiography, may be helpful to identify patients with progressive Osteoarthritis; for inclusion into future clinical trials of DMORDs. This current study had some limitations. The study included only Japanese female patients in the analyses. Therefore, the findings cannot be generalized to other ethnic groups and male patients. Although sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; levels were affected by total body burden of disease , there was no detailed phenotyping of other joints in this study, as mentioned above. Thus, the contribution of other joints to the systemic levels of biomarkers cannot be addressed. In conclusion, this study revealed the potential of sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; as a burden of disease biomarker for the evaluation of individual patient with severe knee Osteoarthritis; (Kellegren and Laurence; grade 4) and, simultaneously, revealed the limitation of sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; as a burden of disease biomarker for the evaluation of individual patient with primary to moderate knee Osteoarthritis; (Kellegren and Laurence; grade 1, 2, and 3).