Osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) is the most prevalent joint disease worldwide and a leading cause of chronic disability . The prevalence of symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis; has been recently estimated to be 9% in the general population. This estimate was computed with a Kellgren-Lawrence score of ≥1 used to define Osteoarthritis; . France has about 40-fold more general practitioners (General Practitioner;s; n = 101,667 in 2009) than rheumatologists (RHs; n = 2,625 in 2007) and thus, most symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis; is managed by General Practitioner;s. Several recommendations have been published for the treatment of knee Osteoarthritis;, including non pharmacological and pharmacological treatments, for both General Practitioner;s and RHs . Use of these treatments may differ among General Practitioner;s and RHs, but few studies  have investigated the prescription patterns of these two types of physicians for the treatment of knee Osteoarthritis;. Because the prevalence of knee Osteoarthritis; increases with age, the safety of prescribed drugs deserves special consideration, and the benefits and risks of prescribing nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s) must be cautiously evaluated for each patient. Indeed, serious side effects occur with the long-term use of Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s by elderly people with Osteoarthritis;. The drugs can cause severe gastrointestinal complications, such as bleeding or perforation . Several studies and meta-analyses have also suggested an association of increased cardiovascular risk and the use of traditional Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s and coxibs . Because of the dose-dependent elevation in cardiovascular and gastrointestinal risks , Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s should be used at the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible time . Use of Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s at a low dose, such as ibuprofen at up to 1200 mg or naproxen at up to 500 mg, may be associated with decreased cardiovascular risk  and may be an interesting alternative to alleviate pain in patients with Osteoarthritis;. Indeed ibuprofen (400 mg 3 times daily) has been shown to be more effective than acetaminophen (1000 mg 3 times daily) in reducing pain and improving function in patients with knee or hip Osteoarthritis; . We designed this national observational prospective study to compare the prescription patterns of General Practitioner;s and RHs for patients with knee Osteoarthritis;, with a special emphasis on low-dose Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s prescriptions. We found that there is speciality-related variability in some aspects of the management of knee Osteoarthritis; and that the clinical profile of patients with knee Osteoarthritis; differed between General Practitioner;s and RHs. The study took the form of a cross-sectional survey by questionnaires completed by General Practitioner;s and RHs working fullor part-time in different areas of France. This study was conducted in accordance with the recommendations of the Helsinki declaration. Ethical approval was not required for this study, in accordance with national guidelines. General Practitioner;s were randomly selected from the CEGEDIM registry and RHs from the French Society of Rheumatology registry. In total, 7,451 General Practitioner;s and 1,777 RHs in private practice were asked to participate; 1,194 General Practitioner;s (16.0%) and 225 RHs (12.7%) agreed and were sent questionnaires in May 2008. Finally, 808 General Practitioner;s (67.6%) and 134 RHs (59.5%) recruited patients. This rate of participation was expected and is usual for this kind of survey. The demographics of these General Practitioner;s and RHs did not significantly differ from those of General Practitioner;s and RHs in France in general in terms of sex, age and number of years of practice. Participating General Practitioner;s and RHs were asked to record data for 2 consecutive patients presenting symptomatic knee Osteoarthritis; according to the American College of Rheumatology criteria . Eligible patients with knee Osteoarthritis; were ≥ 18 years old and did not have another condition that might have interfered with the assessment of knee Osteoarthritis;. After a clinical examination, physicians were asked to complete a questionnaire covering the clinical characteristics of Osteoarthritis;, co-morbidities, current medications and the different treatments prescribed for knee Osteoarthritis; at the end of the consultation. In France, low-dose Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s are sold over the counter and are ibuprofen (up to 1200 mg), ketoprofen (up to 75 mg/j) and naproxen (up to 660 mg/j). Additionally, available SYSADOsteoarthritis; are avocado/soybean unsaponifiable, chondroitin, glucosamine and diacerein. The questionnaire was pragmatic and did not provide the definition of the recorded co-morbidities (hypertension, diabetes mellitus, peptic ulcer, cardiovascular risk, history of cancer, anxiety, depression) to avoid any bias in the prescription. Pain intensity was assessed by a 100-mm visual analog scale (Visual analog score;). The patients were also asked to report the presence or absence of daily disability due to knee Osteoarthritis; (yes/no) and the presence or absence of pain at night (yes/no). A pilot study included a group of 2 General Practitioner;s and 2 RHs, as well as a group of 4 clinical and non-clinical researchers experienced in this type of survey, to test the questionnaire for comprehensibility and relevance. Data are reported as mean ± standard deviation (Standard deviation.) or percentages. Comparisons between the data for General Practitioner;s and RHs involved the chi-square test or t test, as appropriate. Multiple regression analysis was used to assess the independent association of the prescription of low-dose Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s and other variables. Because the study was exploratory, the sample size was calculated to provide a satisfying precision in the worst situation for ordinal data (rate of 50%). With an alpha risk of 5% and an expected precision of 2.5%, the number of patients needed was 1,536 and therefore 768 practitioners (who would each recruit 2 patients). Because the expected rate of practitioners actively recruiting patients among those giving their consent to participate was 55%, we invited 1,400 physicians (1,200 General Practitioner;s and 200 RHs) to participate. A P value < 0.05 was considered statistically significant. All analyses involved use of SAS v9.2 (SAS Inst., Cary, NC). The 808 General Practitioner;s and 134 RHs not differ in age (52.2 ± 6.8 vs. 52.7 ± 7.5 years) (Table 1). However, General Practitioner;s were more frequently male (89.4% vs. 67.2%; p < 0.0001), more often practiced in rural areas (55.0% vs. 19.4%; p < 0.0001) and saw fewer patients with knee Osteoarthritis; per week than did RHs (11.1 ± 8.6 vs. 16.7 ± 8.5; p < 0.0001). General Practitioner;s and RHs included 1,570 and 251 patients with knee Osteoarthritis;, respectively (Table 2). As compared with patients of RHs, those of General Practitioner;s had longer duration of Osteoarthritis; (7.8 ± 5.6 vs. 6.8 ± 5.4 years; p < 0.01), more often experienced pain at rest and on movement (62.4 ± 17.6 vs. 57.3 ± 19.0 mm; p < 0.0001), and more frequently reported pain at night (49.9% vs. 29.7%; p < 0.0001) and daily disability due to knee Osteoarthritis; (90.6% vs. 84.3%; p < 0.01). As compared with RH patients, General Practitioner; patients more often had another joint (hand or hip) affected by Osteoarthritis;: 71.2% vs. 63.7% (p < 0.0001). The presence of one or more pathological conditions was detected in 94.1% of patients. The most frequent severe comorbidities were hypertension (57.3%), diabetes mellitus (16.1%) and peptic ulcer (12.7%). The 2 groups of patients differed in relative frequencies of comorbid conditions (Table 3): hypertension and diabetes mellitus were more frequent in General Practitioner; patients (p < 0.05 for both). A high proportion of patients (80.8%) were receiving a mean of 3.6 ± 2.2 medications for another condition, and 4.5% were receiving oral anticoagulants. General Practitioner;s and RHs prescribed drugs for 89.0% and 83.3% of their patients, respectively (p < 0.0001) (Table 4). General Practitioner;s more frequently than RHs prescribed low-dose Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s (15.1% vs. 5.2%; p < 0.0001), oral Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s (35.0% vs. 25.5%; p < 0.05) and topical Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s (31.1% vs. 15.9%; p < 0.0001). By contrast, RHs more frequently prescribed symptomatic slow-acting drugs for Osteoarthritis; (SYSADOsteoarthritis;s) (45.0% vs. 39.1%; p < 0.01) and gave more intra-articular injections of corticosteroids or hyaluronan (Table 5). General Practitioner;s more frequently recommended physical therapy (p < 0.0001) and weight loss for obese patients (p < 0.0001) (Table 4). Prescription of low-dose Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s did not depend on the presence of cardiovascular risk factors, in contrast to prescription of classical Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s (p < 0.001) and coxibs (p < 0.05) (Table 6). On logistic regression analysis, prescription of low-dose Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s was significantly associated with prescription by General Practitioner;s (odds ratio  = 2.2  1.1-4.5]), prescription of topical Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s (OR = 2.1 ), no prescription of Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s or coxibs (OR = 36.2  and OR = 16.0 , respectively), and no intra-articular injections (OR = 2.2 ). This national observational prospective study was designed to compare the prescription patterns of General Practitioner;s and RHs for their patients with knee Osteoarthritis;, with a special emphasis on the prescription of low-dose Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s. The results of our study are consistent with published data showing that physicians in private practice in general follow the international recommendations  for the pharmacological treatment of Osteoarthritis; . General Practitioner;s and RHs preferentially prescribed acetaminophen, and conventional Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s were more frequently prescribed than were coxibs and low-dose Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s. By contrast, topical Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s, which should be considered ahead of oral Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s according to the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence guidelines , were less frequently prescribed than were standard oral Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s . Of interest, our study identified variability by medical specialty in some aspects of the pharmacological treatment of knee Osteoarthritis;. Indeed, General Practitioner;s more frequently prescribed Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s (conventional, low-dose and topical), whereas RHs more often prescribed SYSADOsteoarthritis;s and more frequently gave intra-articular injections of steroids and hyaluronic acid. This variability is similar to what was found in the AMICA survey, which suggested that the pharmacological management of knee Osteoarthritis; differs between General Practitioner;s and RHs . Another explanation could be the different clinical profile of patients seen by General Practitioner;s or RHs. Indeed, in our study, as compared with RH patients, General Practitioner; patients had longer duration of disease, more frequently had another joint affected by Osteoarthritis; and the disease was more painful, as was previously noted in other studies . Although in France patients can directly consult a specialist, these differences might be due to patients’ more limited access to RHs, which leads patients with painful disease to consult General Practitioner;s more often. Moreover, as shown in a previous British survey , a mixture of physical, social and psychological factors might predict visits to General Practitioner;s, that may explain the different clinical profile of patients with knee Osteoarthritis; who consulted General Practitioner;s. Our General Practitioner;s and RHs did not differ in the prescription of analgesics. Acetaminophen was prescribed for only 43% of patients with chronic knee Osteoarthritis;, which is far less that the 95.8% recorded by Denoeud et al., who assessed the pharmacological modalities prescribed by General Practitioner;s as firstline treatment for knee Osteoarthritis; . This relatively low use of acetaminophen for chronic knee Osteoarthritis; might be due to the modest efficacy of long-term intake of this drug to alleviate pain . General Practitioner;s and RHs did not often recommend nonpharmacological modalities such as information, physical therapy, exercise or weight loss (for obese people). For example, weight reduction, which has been showed to be effective in alleviating pain in patients with knee Osteoarthritis; , was recommended by only about half of the RHs and 65% of the General Practitioner;s. These figures, which are close to those obtained from a recent survey of General Practitioner;s , highlight the need to improve the dissemination of recommendations for nonpharmacological treatment of Osteoarthritis; . Another interesting finding is the high proportion of patients with knee Osteoarthritis; who had hypertension (57.3%) or another cardiovascular risk factor (27.5%). These results are in accordance with results of a large survey showing that 40% of patients with Osteoarthritis; have hypertension as compared with 25% in the general population . This point is of importance given the known increased cardiovascular risk associated with the use of traditional Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s and coxibs, in particular for patients with established cardiovascular conditions. Of note, hypertension and diabetes mellitus were more frequent in General Practitioner; patients, who were more often prescribed Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s to alleviate Osteoarthritis; pain. Cyclooxygenase inhibition causes adverse effects, in particular blood pressure elevation, mainly by impairing the systemic and renal vasodilatatory benefits of prostacyclin . General Practitioner;s and RHs seem to be aware of this key notion, and it affects their prescription practice because we found that Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s and coxibs were prescribed less for patients with a known cardiovascular risk. A recent large-scale study has also demonstrated a dose-dependant relation between the use of conventional Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s or coxibs and risk of death and myocardial infarction in healthy individuals . By contrast, use of low-dose ibuprofen was associated with decreased risk of cardiovascular events, which could be due to an antithrombotic effect comparable to that of aspirin . In our survey, as compared with the prescription of classical Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s and coxibs, that of low-dose Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s did not depend on the perceived presence of cardiovascular risk factors and was associated with prescription by General Practitioner;s, prescription of topical Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s and no prescription of Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s or coxibs. Thus, these practitioners prescribe low-dose Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s as an alternative to conventional Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s or coxibs for patients with knee Osteoarthritis;, regardless of their cardiovascular profile. Our study contains some limitations. Although the response rate was high (67%), participants may not have been representative of all General Practitioner;s and RHs. Moreover, the proportion of General Practitioner;s was much higher than that of RHs, for demographic reasons. Our study found that General Practitioner;s and RHs see a different clinical profile of patients with knee Osteoarthritis;. General Practitioner; patients more often exhibit severe conditions and more often have vascular comorbidities. General Practitioner;s and RHs show some variability in their management of knee Osteoarthritis; in that General Practitioner;s more frequently prescribe Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s. Finally, low-dose Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s, a medication prescribed more often by General Practitioner;s than RHs, is used as an alternative to conventional Non-steroidal anti-infammatory drug;s or coxibs, independent of the perceived presence of cardiovascular risk factors.