The prevalence of knee osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) rapidly increases with age . Thus, it is expected that the number of people with knee Osteoarthritis; will increase in the future due to the steadily aging population and increasing prevalence of obesity . The Global Burden of Disease (GBD) 2010 study ranked hip and knee Osteoarthritis; as the 11th leading cause of years lived with disability (YLD) and the 38th highest contributor to disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) among 291 conditions . The share of total DALYs attributed to hip and knee Osteoarthritis; increased from 0.49 % in 1990 to 0.69 % in 2010 (an estimated 64 % increase) . Osteoarthritis; is associated with substantial deteriorations in health-related quality of life (HRQuality of life) . A recent study in the UK ranked Osteoarthritis; as the 3rd greatest contributor to loss of HRQuality of life among eleven long-standing health conditions . HRQuality of life constitutes a subjective and multidimensional concept that includes the physical, psychological, and social functioning related to a health condition or therapy . HRQuality of life can be used as a criterion to predict future health care consumption among people with Osteoarthritis; . Therefore, measuring HRQuality of life is important not only to quantify the effects of disease and its treatments, but also to aid informed decision-making in allocation of often limited healthcare resources. The relatively weak association between clinical symptoms of Osteoarthritis; and radiographic evidence of the disease has contributed to the existence of several definitions of Osteoarthritis; for study purposes. The multiple definitions represent a major challenge in studies on Osteoarthritis; . A radiographic definition of Osteoarthritis; (most commonly using Kellgrene-Lawrence scale  with the cut-off of grade 2 or worse) and the clinical definition proposed by the American College of Rheumatology (AComputed radiography;)  are two most commonly used definitions in the literature. While the impact of knee pain and knee Osteoarthritis; on HRQuality of life has been investigated in the literature , there is a lack of knowledge on the impact of different definitions of Osteoarthritis; on HRQuality of life. If such differences exist, the different Osteoarthritis; definitions used in health economic evaluations may potentially yield different results and conclusions. Thus, in the present study our main aim was to evaluate and compare the impact of these two definitions of knee Osteoarthritis; on HRQuality of life. These were based on patient-reported knee pain, and/or radiographically evident knee Osteoarthritis;, as well as clinically defined knee Osteoarthritis;. We related our findings to knee-healthy reference participants drawn from the same source population. The Malmö Osteoarthritis; study (MOsteoarthritis;) originated from the Malmö Diet and Cancer Study (MDCS) cohort established between 1991 and 1996 . All men aged 45–73 years and women aged 44–74 years at the time of enrolment living in the city of Malmö were invited to participate in the MDCS (n = 74 138). A cohort of 28 098 had completed baseline examinations . In the year 2007 a postal questionnaire about knee pain was sent to a 10 000 random sample from the MDCS who completed the MDCS baseline examination and were still alive and resident in the Malmö area. Respondents answered a question about whether they had knee pain during the previous 12 months and its duration (<1 week, 1–4 weeks, 1–3 months, >3 months). In the second stage, a random sample of 1300 participants with pain in one or both knees in the past 12 months and duration of at least 4 weeks (group A) and 650 participants without knee pain or with knee pain for shorter duration (group B) were invited to a clinical visit and radiographic examination . Of these, 1028 (79 %) people from group A and 499 (77 %) people from group B participated and were included in the present study. Both knees were radiographed in a weight-bearing and semi-flexed position (knees in 10–15° of flexion) using a posterior-anterior beam direction (film focus distance 110 cm, 60 kV and 10 mA) with the aid of fluoroscopy to optimally align the tibia plateau. An independent senior radiologist specialized in musculoskeletal conditions who was blinded to the clinical data assessed joint space narrowing and osteophytes according to the atlas from the Osteoarthritis Research Society International . We classified a knee as having radiographic knee Osteoarthritis; if one or more of the following criteria were fulfilled in either the medial, lateral tibiofemoral compartment or patellofemoral compartment: joint space narrowing grade 2 or worse, the sum of marginal osteophyte grades in the same compartment 2 or worse, joint space narrowing grade 1 and osteophyte grade 1 in the same compartment (approximating Kellgren and Lawrence (Kellgren & Lawrence;) grade 2 or worse) . All participants answered the 5 questions included in the AComputed radiography; clinical criteria for knee Osteoarthritis;. We classified a participant as having clinical Osteoarthritis; if fulfilling AComputed radiography; clinical criteria according to the recursive partitioning method . Five items are included in the AComputed radiography; criteria (28): (a) knee pain for most days of the prior month, (b) crepitus on active joint motion, (c) morning stiffness of duration < 30 min, (d) age ≥ 38 years, and (e) bony enlargement of the knee on examination. Knee Osteoarthritis; was present if items “a”, “b”, “c”, “d” or items “a”, “b”, “e” or items “a” and “e” were present . We used the AComputed radiography; clinical criteria “a” (i.e. knee pain for most days of the prior month) to define knee pain in our study. It should be noted that as this definition was different from the definition of knee pain in the first stage and also due to gap between the first and second stages of the study, people who defined as having knee pain in the first stage could have been classified as not having knee pain and vice versa. We classified participants into four exposure groups based on their clinical and radiographic knee status: 1) reference group having neither knee pain nor radiographic or clinically-defined knee Osteoarthritis; (n = 744), 2) knee pain without Osteoarthritis;, i.e., participants with knee pain but without radiographic or clinically-defined knee Osteoarthritis; (n = 169), 3) knee pain with Osteoarthritis;, i.e., participants with knee pain having either radiographic knee Osteoarthritis; or clinically-defined knee Osteoarthritis; (n = 402), and 4) radiographic knee Osteoarthritis; but no knee pain, i.e. participants without knee pain but fulfilling the radiographic defined knee Osteoarthritis; (n = 186). A total of 26 participants with missing value on knee Osteoarthritis; status were excluded. Additionally, to assess the impact of different definition of knee Osteoarthritis; on HRQuality of life, the participants with knee Osteoarthritis; (i.e., groups 3 & 4) were collapsed, then classified into three subgroups: those fulfilling the criteria for a) radiographic knee Osteoarthritis; (n = 282), b) clinical knee Osteoarthritis; (n = 157), and c) both clinical and radiographic knee Osteoarthritis; (n = 149). The EQ-5D-3L is a generic multi-attribute instrument to elicit health-related preferences. The EQ-5D-3L covers five attributes: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/ discomfort, and anxiety/depression. Each attribute has three levels: no problems, moderate problems, and severe problems, resulting in 243 (35 ) possible health states . The responses to these attributes are weighted based on the preferences elicited from a general population/patients sample to calculate an index score. We used the UK  and recently developed Swedish  sets of preferences to calculate the index score. The UK EQ-5D-3L scores range between −0.594 and 1 (full health), while the Swedish scores range between 0.340 and 0.969. The Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score;) is a validated knee specific instrument . The Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; is a 42-item self-administered questionnaire covering 5 subscales: pain, other symptoms, function in daily living (Function in daily living), function in sport and recreation (Sport and recreation t0 Timepoint 0, collection point at baseline) and knee related quality of life (Quality of life). All items have five possible answer options scored from 0 (no problems) to 4 (extreme problems). A normalized score (100 indicating no symptoms and 0 indicating extreme symptoms) is calculated for each subscale. As our participants were an elderly population, we included a sixth answer option (not applicable) into the case report form for the subscale Sport/ Rec. If the box “not applicable” was marked, the item was treated as missing data. Since a large number of participants selected this option, we decided not to include this subscale in our analysis. To avoid potential confounder bias, the following explanatory variables were included in our regression analysis: sex, age, body mass index (Body mass index;), comorbidity, years of education, employment, and smoking. Age and Body mass index; were included as continuous variables. Comorbidity was defined as presence of self-reported doctor’s diagnosis of one or more of the following comorbidities: back problems, other joint problems (except knees), asthma/ lung disease, hypertension, heart disease, stroke, leg artery disease, neurological disease, diabetes, cancer, gastric ulcer, renal disease, anemia/blood disease, eye disease/visual impairment, balance disorder, depression, and other psychiatric disorder. Three groups were defined: no comorbidity, single comorbidity, and multiple comorbidities. Years of education were categorized in three groups: ≤9 years, 9–12 years, and >12 years. Employment was defined in three categories: employed, unemployed, and retired. We grouped smoking in three groups as: never, current smoker, and ex-smoker. We applied weighting to account for a possible selection bias that might arise from non-responses in the first or second part in the MOsteoarthritis; study . A logistic regression model with sex, age on 1 January 2007, education, smoking, and Body mass index; as covariates was used to estimate the probability of response in the first stage of survey. Similar logistic regression models including knee pain during last 12 months as an additional covariate were applied to estimate the probability of participation and attendance at the clinical examination. The sampling weights (the reciprocal of the sampling probability for those with and without knee pain ≥ 4 weeks duration) were multiplied by the weights for response, participation and attendance to construct the final weights used in analyses. We present continuous variables using means and standard deviations. The mean differences between groups were tested using one-way analysis of variance (Analysis of variance;) and Bonferroni post-hoc tests. Proportions were compared using Pearson Chi-2 test. Adjusted analysis was conducted using Ordinary least squares regression with robust standard errors. Due to the skewed distribution of the EQ-5D-3L data, several different methods have been applied to these data in the literature , but ordinary least squares (OLS) regression is considered as a simple and valid approach . The linearity of the continuous variables was checked using design variables and residual plots and non-linearity was modelled using fractional polynomial. The possible reasonable linear and non-linear interactions were also checked using the same approach . Potential confounders (age, sex, body mass index, comorbidity, years of education, employment, and smoking) were included in the models regardless of their significance level. STATA version 13 (StataCorp LP, College Station, TX, USA) was used for statistical analysis. The mean (Standard deviation;) age and Body mass index; of the participants included was 69.4 (7.2) and 27.7 (4.9), respectively, and 63.8 % were women (Table 1). Except sex and smoking, there were no statistically significant differences in other explanatory variables across the study groups. The mean UK EQ-5D-3L index scores were 0.69 (95 % Confidence interval; 0.67 to 0.70) and 0.85 (95 % Confidence interval; 0.83 to 0.86) in nonreference and reference groups, respectively. Across non-reference groups, the participants with radiographic knee Osteoarthritis; without knee pain had generally less problems on the EQ-5D-3L dimensions and reported statistically significantly higher HRQuality of life scores compared with the participants who had knee pain (Table 2). Among the participants with knee pain, the participants with both knee pain and knee Osteoarthritis; reported lower HRQuality of life scores. Among the participants with knee Osteoarthritis;, those with radiographic knee Osteoarthritis; generally experienced less problems in the EQ-5D-3L dimensions and reported statistically significantly higher HRQuality of life scores than the participants fulfilled clinical knee Osteoarthritis; definition (Table 3). The participants with both radiographic and clinical knee Osteoarthritis; reported lower scores on three Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; subscales compared with the participants with clinically defined knee Osteoarthritis;. Controlling for potential confounders in the regression analysis did not alter our unadjusted findings in the full sample (Table 4). Generally the outcome measures were ranked in following order: reference group > radiographic knee Osteoarthritis; without knee pain > knee pain without knee Osteoarthritis; > knee pain with knee Osteoarthritis;. Among the participants with knee Osteoarthritis;, while the participants with radiographic knee Osteoarthritis; reported higher scores on all outcome measures, the difference between two other groups (i.e., clinical knee Osteoarthritis; only and clinical and radiographic knee Osteoarthritis;) was statistically significant only on the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score;-Pain subscale. We measured and compared the impact of knee pain and knee Osteoarthritis; on HRQuality of life, using both generic and disease-specific scales, in a large population-based cohort from southern Sweden. First, our results confirmed the expected notion that participants with either knee pain or knee Osteoarthritis; (either clinically or radiographically defined) reported lower HRQuality of life scores than reference participants free of such knee pain and with no knee Osteoarthritis;. We also found that knee pain without knee Osteoarthritis; had more profound negative impact on HRQuality of life than radiographic knee Osteoarthritis; without knee pain. Moreover, among participants with knee Osteoarthritis; (either radiographically or clinically defined), those with clinical knee Osteoarthritis; according to the AComputed radiography; clinical definition reported lower scores of HRQuality of life than those who had radiographic knee Osteoarthritis; not fulfilling the AComputed radiography; clinical criteria. The effect of different Osteoarthritis; definitions in the study of prevalence and incidence of Osteoarthritis; is well documented, where it was reported that radiographic definition of Osteoarthritis; resulted in the highest prevalence estimates . The effect of different Osteoarthritis; definitions on HRQuality of life is however much less well investigated, which may have important implications for the interpretation of findings from health economic evaluations. Our results suggest that the knee Osteoarthritis; definition based on the AComputed radiography; clinical criteria was associated with lower HRQuality of life than the definition based on radiographic knee Osteoarthritis;. The presence of knee pain in the AComputed radiography; clinical definition is a possible explanation for this finding. Interestingly, in our full sample, people with knee pain had lower HRQuality of life compared with people with radiographic features of knee Osteoarthritis; without knee pain. In our sample, only 96 (22 %) of participants in the radiographic knee Osteoarthritis; group experienced pain in most days during last month and interestingly the EQ-5D-3L index score for these 96 participants (0.66) was equal to participants in the clinical knee Osteoarthritis; group (0.66). Our finding of differences in HRQuality of life measures between persons fulfilling different definitions of knee Osteoarthritis; (i.e., radiographic or clinical AComputed radiography; criteria) has an important implication for cost-utility analyses. The difference in the mean HRQuality of life according to knee Osteoarthritis; definition will result in different estimates of qualityadjusted life years (QALYs) which might yield discrepant and potentially conflicting conclusions from these analyses. For example, in our study, if a hypothetical intervention improved HRQuality of life of participants with knee Osteoarthritis; to the level of the reference group (0.85), then QALYs gained from using clinical knee Osteoarthritis; to define participants with knee Osteoarthritis; (0.85 minus 0.66) would be 1.9 times higher than applying radiographic signs for definition of knee Osteoarthritis; (0.85 minus 0.75). This translates into less favorable cost-effectiveness ratios using radiographic signs to define knee Osteoarthritis;. This should be taken into account by policy makers when using cost-utility analysis to make decisions on funding of knee Osteoarthritis; interventions. In line with previous studies , we found that pain was the most affected dimension in the EQ-5D3L questionnaires among participants with knee pain and knee Osteoarthritis;. In our study the participants suffering from both knee pain and knee Osteoarthritis; reported lower scores for all Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score; subscales compared to people with either knee pain or radiographic knee Osteoarthritis; only. In addition, among participants with knee Osteoarthritis;, radiographic knee Osteoarthritis; without pain was associated with higher HRQuality of life than radiographic knee Osteoarthritis; with pain. These findings suggest that the combination of knee pain and knee Osteoarthritis; results in additional negative impact on HRQuality of life compared with knee pain or radiographic knee Osteoarthritis; alone. Mean EQ-5D-3L index score among participants with knee pain and knee Osteoarthritis; in our study (0.65) was higher than people with knee Osteoarthritis; in Singapore (0.49)  and UK (0.44)  using the UK weights. Differences in severity of knee Osteoarthritis;, with a substantial portion of participants in those studies having severe disease and waiting for Total knee replacement(s) might be an explanation. However, our EQ-5D-3L score is comparable to values reported among Swedish people waiting for total hip replacement (0.73)  and ACL surgery (0.69) . This similarity between Swedish patients with different severity highlights another potential explanation for higher scores among the Swedish patients than patients in other countries, i.e., clinical, environmental, organizational, and cultural differences between patients and countries in these studies. The results of this study should be interpreted in light of some limitations. The MOsteoarthritis; study originated from the MDCS whose participants were shown to have a slightly lower mortality than non-participants . Eleven percent of people with knee pain in the past 12 months and 30 % of participants without knee pain in past 12 month did not agree to participate in our study. If non-participation was associated with both knee pain/knee Osteoarthritis; and HRQuality of life through unmeasured factors in our weighting exercise, then this is a potential source of selection bias and also could limit the generalizability of our findings. Another limitation of the current study is the self-reported nature of some explanatory variables (e.g., self-reported doctor-diagnosed comorbidity and smoking) that might be prone to recall bias or underreporting. The cross-sectional design of our study implies that any causal inference should be avoided. The current study showed that participants with knee pain (with and without knee Osteoarthritis;) have poorer HRQuality of life, measured by both generic and disease-specific scales, than the references. The presence of knee Osteoarthritis; has additional negative impact on HRQuality of life above the knee pain alone. Importantly, we found that applying different definitions of knee Osteoarthritis; resulted in different levels of HRQuality of life and this was mainly explained by the knee pain experience. These differences are important to take into account when assessing the impact of knee Osteoarthritis; on HRQuality of life and interpreting the results of cost-utility analyses.