Osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) is a chronic degenerative disease caused by the loss of articular cartilage components in patients worldwide. It is a significant cause of disability-related loss of physical function . Pain is a common symptom of Osteoarthritis;, and although its mechanism is unclear, several animal models have been reported, including the anterior cruciate ligament resection  and medial meniscectomy  models. Monoiodoacetate (Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;) is often used to induce Osteoarthritis; because it causes necrosis of chondrocytes when administered in the knee joints of rats, leading to a pathology similar to Osteoarthritis; . Previous studies have reported that both infammatory and neuropathic pain elements and hypersensitivity are present in the animal models of Osteoarthritis; . Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; administration which induces Osteoarthritis; has been reported to increase the expression of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRole-physical;) that mediates peripheral nervous system infammation in the dorsal root ganglia (Dorsal root ganglion;) . In addition, glial cells, such as microglia in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, proliferate and change their morphology, and the expression of markers, such as ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1 (Ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1;) increases that leads to central sensitization . Diclofenac etalhyaluronate (Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid;) is a chemical combination of diclofenac (Diclofenac;) and hyaluronic acid (Hyaluronic acid;), a newly developed drug for intra-articular injection in Osteoarthritis; that slowly releases Diclofenac; through hydrolysis in the joint . Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory Drug;s, such as Diclofenac;, provide good and rapid analgesia, but are not recommended for frequent or long-term use . Hyaluronic acid; may improve pain through cartilage protection, anti-infammation, and intra-articular protection when administered intraarticularly, and may have less immediate, but long-lasting efects . Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; may improve joint function and analgesia and decrease systemic side efects because it releases Diclofenac; slowly by hydrolysis in the joints. Studies suggest that Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; promotes the production of highmolecular-weight sodium hyaluronate in human synoviocytes in vitro and may provide potent long-term analgesic efects and improve joint function . Animal studies indicate that Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; persists in the joints for approximately 4 weeks after administration and confers analgesic efects on a silver nitrate-induced acute infammation model . In humans, several clinical trials have reported that joint injections of Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; every 4 weeks for up to 52 weeks for osteoarthritis improved pain and did not cause serious adverse events . However, in animal studies, no such experimental results have yet been reported for such osteoarthritis models. An excessive analgesia may promote joint deformity, and studies have reported an association between opioid administration and Osteoarthritis; progression . Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the analgesic effect of Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; and its effect on joint deformity using an Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;-induced rat knee Osteoarthritis; model. All animal experimental procedures were reviewed and approved by the Ethics Committee of the Chiba University. All experiments were conducted in accordance with the National Institutes of Health guidelines for the management and use of laboratory animals. Eight 6-weeks-old male Sprague–Dawley rats (CLEA, Tokyo, Japan), weighing 250–300 g, were used. Te rats were kept under an environmentally controlled 12-h light/dark cycle, with a temperature of 21–23℃ and humidity of 45–65%. All rats were provided water and food ad libitum and fed a standard rodent diet (Computed radiography.F-1; Oriental Yeast Co., Ltd). Based on previous studies , three drugs, 0.15 mg/kg medetomidine (Nippon Zenyaku Kogyo Co., Ltd.), 2.0 mg/ kg midazolam (Maruishi Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.), and 2.5 mg/kg butorphanol (Meiji Seika Pharma. Co., Ltd.) were mixed with 1.45 mL/kg of saline (Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Tokyo, Japan) and used as anesthesia. Te eight rats that had received the anesthetics intraperitoneally were injected with 50 μL of saline and 2 mg of Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; into the right knees using a 27-gauge needle . Four weeks later, the rats were randomly divided into two groups of four rats each: one group was injected with Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; (JOYCLU, Seikagaku Corporation) (0.5 mg) (50 μL) into the right knee joint (Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; group) and the other group was injected with 50 μL of substrate only (Macrogol 400, an additive adjusted to a pH of 4.8–5.4) without Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; (vehicle group). Seven weeks after Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; administration, the retrograde nerve tracer—1% fuorogold (Fluorogold;)—and 25 μL of saline were administered to the right knees of all animals. All rats of both groups were examined for behavioral tests every week and Computed tomography (Computed tomography;) every 2 weeks. After 8 weeks of administration of Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; injection, namely 4 weeks of Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; or vehicle administration, all of them were sacrifced by perfusion fxation under anesthesia. Ten, the spinal cord, Dorsal root ganglion;s and right knee joint of all rats were harvested. Te spinal cord and Dorsal root ganglion;s were used for immunohistochemical staining, and the right knee joints were used for histological evaluation. Using the von Frey assay, mechanical plantar skin sensitivity of all rats in both groups was evaluated every week for 8 weeks after Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; administration. Prior to the test, the condition of each animal was observed, and its weight was measured each time to confrm that there were no health problems. Two groups of four rats each were used. Te rats were randomly selected and acclimatized to the test chamber for 1 h before testing (blinded to the experimenter). Baseline thresholds were tested before Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; administration. Te von Frey flament (monoflament kit; Smith & Nephew) was applied for 4 s or until the lower limb was withdrawn (whichever occurred frst), and the 50% paw withdrawal threshold (Paw withdrawal threshold; g) was calculated . Stimulus intensity ranged from 1 to 60 g, corresponding to 4.08, 4.17, 4.31, 4.56, 4.74, 4.93, 5.07, 5.18, 5.46, and 5.88. Five consecutive stimulations were performed using the up-down method , starting from the lowest flament that elicited a positive response in each animal. Treshold values were calculated based on the flament thickness, average spacing, and pattern of responses. Hind limb plantar mechanical hypersensitivity was assessed using a wire mesh observation cage. Data are presented as 50% Paw withdrawal threshold;±standard mean error for each group. As mentioned above, according to a previous study , the L3, L4, and L5 level right Dorsal root ganglion; and lumbar spinal cord of all the rats in both groups were harvested 4 weeks after the administration of Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; or vehicle, namely 8 weeks after administration of Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;. Te Dorsal root ganglion; and spinal cord specimens were immersed overnight in phosphate-bufered paraformaldehyde. Specimens were then stored in 0.01 M phosphatebufered saline (Phosphate-bufered saline;) containing 20% sucrose for 20 h at 4 ℃ and frozen in liquid nitrogen. Te Dorsal root ganglion; and spinal cord were sliced into 10-μm-thick slices using a cryostat (CM3050S, Leica Microsystems). Te sections were mounted on slides coated with poly-L-lysine. Te Dorsal root ganglion; sections were treated with a nonspecifc blocking solution of 0.3% Triton X-100 mixed with 3% skim milk, bovine serum albumin, and Phosphate-bufered saline; for 90 min at 20℃. Te sections were then incubated with anti-CGRole-physical; rabbit antibody (1:1,000 dilution; chemicon Temecula) for 20 h at 4℃, and then incubated with Alexa Fluor 488-conjugated goat anti-rabbit IgG (1:1,000 for CGRole-physical; immunization Molecular Probes). Te spinal cord sections were incubated with anti-Ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1; rabbit antibody (1:1,000 dilution; Chemicon Temecula) for 20 h at 4℃, and then incubated with Alexa Fluor 488-conjugated goat anti-rabbit IgG (1:1,000 for Ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1; immunization, Cat# 019–19,741; Wako, Osaka, Japan). After each step, the sections were washed three times with Phosphate-bufered saline;. Immunostained sections were observed under a microscope BZ-X810 (KEYENCE, Japan). Te number of neurons labeled with Fluorogold;-alone and those marked with Fluorogold; and CGRole-physical; were randomly counted at 10 locations every 0.45 mm2 in each Dorsal root ganglion; at 400×magnifcation. Te percentage of CGRole-physical;-immunoreactive (ir) neurons in the Fluorogold;-labeled neurons was then determined. Counting grids were used to measure Ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1;-ir neurons every 0.1 mm2 of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. Both CGRole-physical;-ir Dorsal root ganglion; neurons and Iba-positive cells in spinal cord were completely blinded to count by two orthopedic surgeons with experience in basic experiments. Samples were collected from all groups for histological evaluation. Te rats were anesthetized intraperitoneally with 0.15 mg/kg medetomidine, 2.0 mg/kg midazolam, and 2.5 mg/kg butorphanol. Further, 0.9% saline was perfused percutaneously, followed by 500 mL of 4% paraformaldehyde mixed with phosphate bufer (0.1 M, pH 7.4). Te soft tissues around the right knee joint were excised. Each specimen was dehydrated twelve hours in U.I. demineralization solution A (Yuaikasei CO., LTD, Amagasaki, Hyogo, Japan), neutralized with 5% sodium sulfate, and then cut. Te specimens were dehydrated and parafn-embedded using Tissue-Tek V. I. P. 6 AI (Sakura Finetek Japan Co., LTD, Tokyo, Japan). From each prepared block, 10-μm serial sections were made at the center and intercondylar area of the knee joint using a sliding microtome Least squares;113 (YAMATO-KOHKI Industrial Co., LTD, Asaka, Saitama, Japan). Twelve sections from each group were stained with hematoxylin–eosin and safranin O (three sections per animal). Osteoarthritis; was evaluated using the histopathology scoring system of the Osteoarthritis Research Society International (Osteoarthritis;RSI) . Te Osteoarthritis;RSI score is calculated by multiplying the Stage and Grade scores. Grade 0 is normal, grade 1 preserves the articular surface, but cartilage tissue changes such as chondrocyte proliferation occur, grade 2 shows localized breakdown of cartilage surface continuity, grade 3 shows progressive vertical fssuring, grade 4 shows delamination of the cartilage surface, grade 5 shows degeneration extending to the subchondral bone, and grade 6 shows deformity of the joint as a result of microfracture repair. Stage 0 has no Osteoarthritis; fndings, stage 1 has less than 10% of the joint surface, stage 2 has 10–25%, stage 3 has 25–50%, and stage 4 has more than 50%. Two orthopedic surgeons with experience in basic experiments blindly assessed and scored the samples. Each sample was evaluated for Osteoarthritis; changes in depth (grading) and width (staging), and the scores for depth and width were multiplied. Te mean scores for each group were compared between groups. As mentioned above, according to a previous study , the L3, L4, and L5 level right Dorsal root ganglion; and lumbar spinal cord of all the rats in both groups were harvested 4 weeks after the administration of Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; or vehicle, namely 8 weeks after administration of Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;. Te Dorsal root ganglion; and spinal cord specimens were immersed overnight in phosphate-bufered paraformaldehyde. Specimens were then stored in 0.01 M phosphatebufered saline (Phosphate-bufered saline;) containing 20% sucrose for 20 h at 4 ℃ and frozen in liquid nitrogen. Te Dorsal root ganglion; and spinal cord were sliced into 10-μm-thick slices using a cryostat (CM3050S, Leica Microsystems). Te sections were mounted on slides coated with poly-L-lysine. Te Dorsal root ganglion; sections were treated with a nonspecifc blocking solution of 0.3% Triton X-100 mixed with 3% skim milk, bovine serum albumin, and Phosphate-bufered saline; for 90 min at 20℃. Te sections were then incubated with anti-CGRole-physical; rabbit antibody (1:1,000 dilution; chemicon Temecula) for 20 h at 4℃, and then incubated with Alexa Fluor 488-conjugated goat anti-rabbit IgG (1:1,000 for CGRole-physical; immunization Molecular Probes). Te spinal cord sections were incubated with anti-Ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1; rabbit antibody (1:1,000 dilution; Chemicon Temecula) for 20 h at 4℃, and then incubated with Alexa Fluor 488-conjugated goat anti-rabbit IgG (1:1,000 for Ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1; immunization, Cat# 019–19,741; Wako, Osaka, Japan). After each step, the sections were washed three times with Phosphate-bufered saline;. Immunostained sections were observed under a microscope BZ-X810 (KEYENCE, Japan). Te number of neurons labeled with Fluorogold;-alone and those marked with Fluorogold; and CGRole-physical; were randomly counted at 10 locations every 0.45 mm2 in each Dorsal root ganglion; at 400×magnifcation. Te percentage of CGRole-physical;-immunoreactive (ir) neurons in the Fluorogold;-labeled neurons was then determined. Counting grids were used to measure Ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1;-ir neurons every 0.1 mm2 of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. Both CGRole-physical;-ir Dorsal root ganglion; neurons and Iba-positive cells in spinal cord were completely blinded to count by two orthopedic surgeons with experience in basic experiments. Samples were collected from all groups for histological evaluation. Te rats were anesthetized intraperitoneally with 0.15 mg/kg medetomidine, 2.0 mg/kg midazolam, and 2.5 mg/kg butorphanol. Further, 0.9% saline was perfused percutaneously, followed by 500 mL of 4% paraformaldehyde mixed with phosphate bufer (0.1 M, pH 7.4). Te soft tissues around the right knee joint were excised. Each specimen was dehydrated twelve hours in U.I. demineralization solution A (Yuaikasei CO., LTD, Amagasaki, Hyogo, Japan), neutralized with 5% sodium sulfate, and then cut. Te specimens were dehydrated and parafn-embedded using Tissue-Tek V. I. P. 6 AI (Sakura Finetek Japan Co., LTD, Tokyo, Japan). From each prepared block, 10-μm serial sections were made at the center and intercondylar area of the knee joint using a sliding microtome Least squares;113 (YAMATO-KOHKI Industrial Co., LTD, Asaka, Saitama, Japan). Twelve sections from each group were stained with hematoxylin–eosin and safranin O (three sections per animal). Osteoarthritis; was evaluated using the histopathology scoring system of the Osteoarthritis Research Society International (Osteoarthritis;RSI) . Te Osteoarthritis;RSI score is calculated by multiplying the Stage and Grade scores. Grade 0 is normal, grade 1 preserves the articular surface, but cartilage tissue changes such as chondrocyte proliferation occur, grade 2 shows localized breakdown of cartilage surface continuity, grade 3 shows progressive vertical fssuring, grade 4 shows delamination of the cartilage surface, grade 5 shows degeneration extending to the subchondral bone, and grade 6 shows deformity of the joint as a result of microfracture repair. Stage 0 has no Osteoarthritis; fndings, stage 1 has less than 10% of the joint surface, stage 2 has 10–25%, stage 3 has 25–50%, and stage 4 has more than 50%. Two orthopedic surgeons with experience in basic experiments blindly assessed and scored the samples. Each sample was evaluated for Osteoarthritis; changes in depth (grading) and width (staging), and the scores for depth and width were multiplied. Te mean scores for each group were compared between groups. Computed tomography; of the right knee of rats in both the groups was performed every 2 weeks after Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; administration. Te rats were anesthetized by inhalation of sevofurane, and imaging was performed using a Computed tomography; Lab GX (Rigaku, Tokyo, Japan) with a FOV of 45 mm and an imaging time of 18 s. Coronal cross-sectional images parallel to the bony axis of the tibia and through the center of the articular surface were produced on Computed tomography; and evaluated using the Larsen classifcation , commonly applied in rheumatoid arthritis. Two blinded orthopedic surgeons evaluated and scored the sections according to the degree of joint deformity. Te mean scores of each group were compared between the groups. In the von Frey test, both the vehicle and Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; groups showed a decreased pain threshold after Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; administration, with no signifcant diference between the two groups. After drug administration, the Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; group showed a signifcant improvement in irritability from the second to the fourth week after treatment than vehicle group (P < 0.05; Fig. 1). Te Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; group had a signifcantly lower percentage of Fluorogold;-labeled CGRole-physical;-ir cells in the Dorsal root ganglion;sL3, L4 and L5 than those in vehicle group (P < 0.01; Fig. 2). Te number of Ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1;-ir cells in the right dorsal horn of the spinal cord was signifcantly lower in the Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; group than in vehicle group (P < 0.05; Fig. 3). Both groups had progressive Osteoarthritis; changes (Fig. 4). Te Osteoarthritis;RSI score was slightly lower in the Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; group than in vehicle group, but there was no signifcant difference between the two groups (Fig. 5). Progression of the joint deformity was observed in both the groups; however, there was no signifcant diference at any time point (Fig. 6). Tis is the frst study to demonstrate the efect of Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; treatment on the behavioral induction of osteoporotic pain, sensory neurons, and Osteoarthritis; in a rat model of Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;induced knee Osteoarthritis;. In the present study, 2.0 mg of Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; administered to the knee joint of rats led to signifcant Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;-induced cutaneous hind paw hypersensitivity to mechanical stimuli and Osteoarthritis; changes. In addition, intra-articular injection of Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; caused signifcant improvement in cutaneous hind paw hypersensitivity to mechanical stimuli and attenuated CGRole-physical;-ir Dorsal root ganglion; neurons and Iba-1 positive cells. However, there was no signifcant diference in the osteoarthritic changes between the Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; and vehicle groups. In the 2.0 mg Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; rat knee Osteoarthritis; model used in this study, signifcant Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;-induced cutaneous hind paw hypersensitivity to mechanical stimuli, increased CGRole-physical;ir Dorsal root ganglion; neurons and Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;-induced Osteoarthritis; changes have been previously reported , and the model is considered a valid model for knee Osteoarthritis;. Since this is the frst study in which Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; was administered to a rat Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; model, it was necessary to use a dose that would defnitely induce joint deformity. In addition, since it was required to compare not only arthropathic changes but also pain behavior evaluation, we decided to use a dose of 2.0 mg Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;. Tis dose has been reported in previous animal studies using rats to reliably induce arthropathic changes and show signifcant results in pain behavior. We also considered Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; 2.0 mg, which causes severe joint degeneration, to be appropriate because, in Japan, in clinical practice, intra-articular injection of Hyaluronic acid; and Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; is often used for patients with moderate to end-stage Osteoarthritis; as well as for those with mild Osteoarthritis;. However, Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; may exert better analgesic and jointprotective efects in patients with mild Osteoarthritis;. Yoh et al.  reported that 0.25 mg or 0.5 mg Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; intra-articular injection to hip in rats induced mild Osteoarthritis; this year, moreover, Kanno et al.  also reported arthropathic changes and pain behavior assessment in a rat model of hip osteoarthritis at 0.5 mg Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;. We believe it is necessary to compare the efects of Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; with those of low-dose Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; administration models such as 0.25 mg and 0.5 mg in the future. In a previous study, radiolabeling showed that Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; remained in the joints for up to 4 weeks post-administration and released Diclofenac; continuously . In addition, a study  in which Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; was administered after inducing arthritis with silver nitrate in the knees of rabbits suggested that the Diclofenac; concentration in the synovium remained>10 ng/g and signifcantly reduced swelling from the day after its administration until 4 weeks later. In the present study, Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;-induced cutaneous hind paw hypersensitivity to mechanical stress was signifcantly improved in the Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; group than that in vehicle group from 2 to 4 weeks after administration. Tese results suggest that intra-articular injection of Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; improved pain and was sustained for up to 4 weeks after administration. In this study, considering the survival period of Fluorogold;, intra-articular injection of Fluorogold; was performed at week 7 of Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; administration, but the possibility of infuence on subsequent pain behavior cannot be ruled out. In the future, it will be necessary to devise the timing of Fluorogold; administration, such as administering Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; and Fluorogold; at the same time and conducting further long-term follow-ups. A previous study reported that intra-articular administration of Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; enhances cyclooxygenase2 (Cyclooxygenase;2) and interleukin1β (interleukin;-1β) expression in chondrocytes . Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; continuously released Diclofenac; that suppressed the production of prostaglandin E2 , a typical infammatory cytokine, by inhibiting Cyclooxygenase;, thereby reducing pain. Tese mechanisms suggest that Diclofenac; improves pain in the Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;-induced rat knee Osteoarthritis; model. Immunohistochemical staining showed that the Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; group had a signifcantly decreased percentage of Fluorogold;-positive and CGRole-physical;-positive Dorsal root ganglion; cells innervating the knee joint than those in vehicle group. Te secretion of local pro-infammatory cytokines contributes to increased CGRole-physical; expression, leading to neurogenic infammation and hypersensitivity. Te aferent nerve fbers in the rat knee joint have been reported to be localized to the L3, L4, and L5 . Increased levels of CGRole-physical; in the Dorsal root ganglion; of L3, L4, and L5 indicated acute infammatory pain in the knee of an Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;-induced Osteoarthritis; rat model . In addition, the Dorsal root ganglion; neurons are considered responsible for acute infammatory pain . Tus, pain-related characteristics of an Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;-induced rat Osteoarthritis; model may originate from an infammatory pain state induced by local infammation initiated by infammatory cytokines. Terefore, the present study indicated that local infammation occurred in the knee of an Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;induced Osteoarthritis; rat model, and that CGRole-physical; expression in the Dorsal root ganglion; was suppressed by Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; injection that suggested that Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; administration reduced acute infammatory pain. However, as there was no control group in this study, it is unclear how many CGRole-physical;-ir Dorsal root ganglion; neurons were elevated after Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; injection in the vehicle group than in normal group. Future studies should include a control group. In this study, the number of Ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1;-positive cells, a marker of microglia in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, was also signifcantly reduced in the Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; group than that in vehicle control. Pain in Osteoarthritis; is a complex mechanism; however, it may primarily involve infammatory pain and, when prolonged, a neuropathic pain component. Moreover, in the Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;-induced model, pain may become chronic due to central sensitization . It has been shown that 2.0 mg of Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; administered intra-articulately causes signifcant axonal damage to Dorsal root ganglion; cells innervating the skin and other parts of the hind leg, in addition to joint deformities . Namely, neuropathic pain component may have been involved in the present results with Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; 2.0 mg. In this study, we didn’t evaluate the nature of the pain, and immunostaining of Dorsal root ganglion;s only evaluated infammatory pain using CGRole-physical;. Terefore, neuropathic pain was not discussed. Terefore, future studies should include evaluation of ATF-3, a neuropathic pain marker in Dorsal root ganglion;s, and microglial activity using OX42 in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord to focus on the neuropathic pain component when we use 2.0 mg Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; injection. Level of Cyclooxygenase; is upregulated in macrophages and Schwann cells around nerve injury , and Cyclooxygenase; inhibitors can interfere with myelin debris signals that negatively afect regeneration and may assist in nerve regeneration in rats . Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; may also decrease microglial expression by regenerating peripheral nerves and inhibiting sensitization of the central nervous system. Terefore, Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; may be efective against acute infammatory and chronic pain; however, further validation is needed. Pathologically and radiographically, Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; was ineffective in improving or inhibiting the progression of joint deformity; in contrast, there was no progression of deformity due to excessive analgesia. As Kanno et al.  reported, drugs with strong analgesic efects such as tramadol risk worsening arthropathy, but the results of this study showed that Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; reduced pain but did not worsen arthropathy. Tis may be because Hyaluronic acid; has a protective efect on joints and promotes the synthesis of proteoglycans and glycosaminoglycans . In this study, we used the Larsen classifcation for Computed tomography; image evaluation because Computed tomography; is more convenient than X-ray at our facility and that it is more accurate to evaluate the articular surface of rats than X-ray. Te Kellgren–Lawrence classifcation  (Kellgren–Lawrence; classifcation) on X-rays is generally used for evaluating human patients with Osteoarthritis;. However, in Computed tomography; , particularly in rats, Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; injection causes bone loss, and increases trabecular  and tibial subchondral plate thickness, but this is not a well-established evaluation. As the Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;-induced rat model simulates Osteoarthritis; by inducing necrosis of chondrocytes, we considered the Larsen classifcation to be more suitable for the evaluation than the Kellgren–Lawrence; classifcation. Considering the characteristics of Computed tomography;, it is possible to provide detailed data on the evaluation of the bone itself, such as bone volume/tissue volume (BV/TV), trabecular number (Tb.N), trabecular thickness (Tb.T), trabecular separation (Tb. Sp), we would like to evaluate the bone using each parameter with Computed tomography;. Tis study has some limitations. First, we failed to include a control group. In previous studies, it has been reported that 2.0 mg Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; induces obvious arthropathic changes, and in this study, Computed tomography; showed obvious arthropathic changes, so we judged that it is appropriate as a rat knee arthropathy model induced by Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular;. However, the lack of a control group is a major limitation of this study, and it will be necessary to provide one in future studies. Second, as the synovial membrane and cartilage in the knee joint were not investigated, we could not confrm whether the reduction in infammatory cytokines decreased the pain. Tird, the von Frey test was the only behavioral test used to evaluate pain. Terefore, it is necessary to perform behavioral assessments for musculoskeletal pain, such as measuring hind limb weight bearing and the catwalk test in the future. Finally, the follow-up period was short, and Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; was administered only once. Tus, a long-term study with adequate administration of Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; is required in the future. Intra-articular injection of Diclofenac;-Hyaluronic acid; provided an analgesic efect without worsening joint deformity in the rat knee Multiple Imputation;ntraarticular; model.