Osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) is one of the main causes of pain and disability with knee Osteoarthritis; being a leading cause of disability among older adults globally afecting the life quality of patients . Te disease is characterized by joint pain and progressive degeneration of articular cartilage involving remodeling of all joint tissues (i.e., bone, synovium, ligaments) and joint space narrowing (JSN) . Terefore, from a physio-pathological perspective, knee Osteoarthritis; is a whole joint disease involving structural modifcations of the articular cartilage  and subchondral bone . Knee Osteoarthritis; also involves the disruption of the synovial membrane, meniscus, and the infrapatellar fat pad (IFP) . Te estimated prevalence of Osteoarthritis; among adults over 60years of age or older is approximately 13% in women and 10% in men . Te major risk factors for developing Osteoarthritis;, in addition to age, are gender (female sex), injury, obesity, genetic factors, and high workload . Lifestyle factors including physical activity and exercise have been associated with knee Osteoarthritis;, although the evidence is inconsistent . At present, the treatment of Osteoarthritis; mainly depends on knee replacement surgery and approaches to reduce symptoms and/or pain , while there are no therapies and/or medication approved by regulatory authorities that alter the onset or progression of Osteoarthritis; structural damage. Te currently available treatments have only moderate efects, and therefore, patients are not satisfed with their efcacy . Due to the failure of the available medications to treat knee Osteoarthritis;, the number of joint replacement surgeries is increasing by ~10% annually . Te anatomical severity of Osteoarthritis; is usually assessed by clinical evaluation of pain, joint stifness, and limitations in physiological function as well as by joint imaging using standard radiographs (X-ray, and magnetic resonance imaging), using the Kellgren and Lawrence scale , which is known as the Kellgren-Lawrence score; grading system (0–4). A Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade of 0 indicates an intact joint without any features of Osteoarthritis;, and the subsequent grades 1–4 represent increasing severity of the disease, and a score>2 is indicative of Osteoarthritis; being present. However, radiography reveals only changes in bone and cartilage, which tend to occur late in the disease . Another way to monitor structural changes in Osteoarthritis; is by measuring molecular markers (biomarkers) that are released into the blood and other biological fuids (e.g., urine) during the turnover of tissue . In the past few years, the potential of molecules involved in the bone and cartilage metabolism as biomarkers for knee Osteoarthritis; has been investigated (for a review on the topic see ). Tese biomarkers can be determined using commercially available ELISA kits . Biomarkers in osteoarthritis can be categorized using BIPED (Burden of Disease, Investigative, Prognostic, Efcacy of Intervention, and Diagnostic) classifcation scheme proposed by the Osteoarthritis Biomarkers Network  and could be used to detect and monitor bone and cartilage turnover, as well as synovial metabolism for the evaluation of the pathophysiological processes that lead to both joint failure and pain in Osteoarthritis; patients . Specifc biomarkers have been related to the presence and/or severity of knee Osteoarthritis; in cross-sectional studies; whereas longitudinal studies have revealed some markers that could predict Osteoarthritis; progression . In the cases of knee Osteoarthritis;, a biomarker could be an operator (efector molecule) and/or the result of joint damage. For example, cartilage oligomeric matrix protein (Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein;), an important degradation product of articular cartilage is associated with Osteoarthritis; severity . Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein; is a pentameric non-collagenous glycoprotein primarily identifed in cartilage , which is a member of the family of thrombospondin and acts as a catalyst in collagen formation . Furthermore, the association of the levels Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein;, with the radiographic severity of knee Osteoarthritis; has been reported . Also, in the case of cartilage extracellular matrix fragments, hyaluronan (Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range;) that refects the extent of synovitis , may serve as both a biomarker and stimuli for the innate immune chronic wound healing response in the Osteoarthritis; joint . Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; is a non-sulfated glycosaminoglycan consisting of alternately repeating D-glucuronic acid and N-acetylglucosamine units. Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; is abundantly in articular cartilage and synovial fuid and it is partly responsible for lubrication and viscoelasticity of the synovial . Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; also regulates several processes in the articular cartilage, synovial fuid, and subchondral bone (reviewed in ). Interestingly, both the concentration and chain length of Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; are reduced in synovial fuid in patients with knee Osteoarthritis;  suggesting that the low viscosity of the synovial fuid may cause the wear-and-pain associated with the disease . Previous studies have also demonstrated that Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; level in the circulation is associated with the severity of Osteoarthritis; (Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade) , age of patients . Other studies have focused on the synthesis and degradation of type II collagen to identify biochemical markers for Osteoarthritis; . Type II collagen is a major structural protein of the cartilage and in combination with other collagen types and non-collagenous proteins, including Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein;, forms a tensile network for cartilage . Te potential of serum procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide (sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide;), which is cleaved from cartilage type II procollagen following the release of newly synthesized procollagen into the matrix  as a biomarker for monitoring the progression of Osteoarthritis; has also been investigated . While a large number of studies have been pursued to identify disease-specifc biomarkers for Osteoarthritis;, only a very limited number have been identifed . A successful biomarker should facilitate the evaluation of disease progression, be easily determined using commercially available assay kits, and may help patients to understand their condition . Tis work aimed to determine the levels of two biomarkers of cartilage metabolism namely Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein;, a biomarker of cartilage degradation, and Procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide;, a biomarker of cartilage synthesis as well as hyaluronan, a biomarker of synovitis in serum samples from healthy individuals and patients with diferent degrees of severity of knee Osteoarthritis;. As suggested by other studies, we hypothesized that the concentrations of these biomarkers are correlated with the severity of knee Osteoarthritis; and might predict the progression of the disease. Tus, a major objective of this work was to examine the relationship between specifc biomarkers in circulation and clinical diagnosis. Combining biochemical markers with other risk factors (i.e., obesity, occupational risk factors, age, gender, etc.), may facilitate better monitoring of the progression of the disease and help in identifying asymptomatic knee Osteoarthritis; patients. A total of 38 healthy individuals at high risk of developing Osteoarthritis;, 44 patients with early knee Osteoarthritis; (EOsteoarthritis;), and 130 patients with late (established) knee Osteoarthritis; (LOsteoarthritis;) were recruited as a random population sample to evaluate the correlation of biomarker levels with the severity of knee Osteoarthritis;.La Fe, Valencia, Spain, from Oct 2018 until Dec 2020. Participants were volunteers attending the hospital for other reasons diferent from knee issues, mainly for a routine medical checkup. Tey were informed about the project, and the subjects interested in participating were fltered and classifed according to the inclusion / classifcation criteria (see below). A clinical evaluation consisting of physical examination, patient-based questionnaires, radiographs (X-ray and/or Magnetic Resonance Image-Magnetic resonance imaging;), and collection of blood samples was performed on each subject. After this clinical evaluation, subjects were divided into patients with EOsteoarthritis; and healthy subjects. EOsteoarthritis; was defned according to the criteria proposed by Luyten  which are intended only for research purposes and they are the most precise criteria for the diagnosis of EOsteoarthritis; described in the literature. It should be pointed out that the patients have not progressed to advanced Osteoarthritis; or any other arthropathy during the implementation of this study. Te inclusion criteria for EOsteoarthritis; patients were (i) age≥40years, (ii) Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade 0–1, weight-bearing (at least 2 projections: PA fxed fexion and skyline for patellofemoral Osteoarthritis;), iii) patient-based questionnaires (see section 2.2 “Clinical assessment”), and (iv) patients should present joint line tenderness or crepitus in the clinical examination. Te group of patients with early Osteoarthritis; included 44 patients (31 women, 13 men). All patients in this group had chronic daily pain of the knee for at least 6months. For the healthy group, the inclusion criteria were (i) age≥40years; (ii) body mass index (Body mass index;)≥25kg/m2 ; and (iii) Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade 0. Healthy subjects (n=38) at high risk of developing knee Osteoarthritis; included 23 women and 15 men. Obesity has been associated with the onset and development of Osteoarthritis;. For this reason, we chose it as an easily identifable risk factor for fltering healthy subjects at risk of developing knee Osteoarthritis;. None of the healthy individuals had evidence of knee Osteoarthritis; assessed by clinical examination, questionnaire, and X-ray and/or Magnetic resonance imaging; flms of both knees. Exclusion criteria were the same for both groups: (i) any cognitive disability that hindered viewing of the audio-visual material; (ii) illiteracy; (iii) comprehension or communication difculties, (iv) insufcient Spanish language comprehension to follow measurement instructions; (v) presence of any rheumatic, autoimmune or infectious pathology. Individuals with diseases that might increase the levels of sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein; and/or sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; such as cardiovascular diseases  and infammatory diseases  were excluded from this study. A total of 130 patients with late (established) knee Osteoarthritis; (LOsteoarthritis;) (98 women, 32 men) undergoing knee replacement surgery at Apollonion Hospital, Nicosia, Cyprus, were enrolled in this study from July 2018 until Jan 2020. Te minimum criteria for knee replacement therapy (KTR) were signifcant, prolonged symptoms including intractable pain afecting the quality of life of patients, with supporting clinical and radiological signs . Recruitment of patients was carried out by clinicians and Osteoarthritis; was defned according to the American College of Rheumatology criteria (https://www.rheumatology. org/) for the classifcation and reporting of osteoarthritis of the knee . Te inclusion criteria for this group were as follows: age≥50years, knee pain, radiological evidence (x-ray images) of Osteoarthritis;, crepitus audible/ palpable, and stifness lasting under 30min. Patients with post-traumatic osteoarthritis, arthritis due to any autoimmune, infective, or infammatory rheumatological conditions were also excluded from the study. All women were postmenopausal, and all Osteoarthritis; patients were without treatment that could interfere with bone metabolism . All patients had chronic daily pain of the knee for at least 6months. Demographic and clinical data, including age, weight, height, and clinical symptoms of the knee joints, were recorded. Body mass index; was calculated as weight (kg) divided by height (m)2 . Te Kellgren and Lawrence (Kellgren and Lawrence;) scoring system (0–4) was used to assess the radiographic severity of Osteoarthritis; while in both centers the same radiologist, with more than 10years of experience in musculoskeletal system radiology, examined all the radiographs, and described the Kellgren-Lawrence score; for each subject . Healthy individuals had a Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade of 0 in both knees while the patients of the EOsteoarthritis; group had a Kellgren-Lawrence score; score of 0 or 1. Moreover, in this study, patients with established Osteoarthritis; were divided into a mild group (Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade 2 in at least one knee), and a severe group (Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade 3 or 4 in at least one knee). In this study, because the majority of patients with established Osteoarthritis; had both knees afected, the mean Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade of both knees was used in the analysis (discussed further in “Results”). All participants were also interviewed regarding pain in both knees by asking: “Have you experienced left or right knee pain in the past months/years, during walking and/or at rest?”. Knee pain at rest and during walking (before surgery for the patients of the late Osteoarthritis; group) was assessed using the visual analog scale (Visual analog score;), an 11-point (0–10) numerical rating scale (0=no pain; 10=worst pain) . All answers were recorded specifcally for each knee . Individuals were defned as that i) without pain if they indicated a Visual analog score; score of zero and ii) with pain if they indicated a score more than zero. For data analysis in this work the average pain in both knees was used and for the graphical depiction of associations with biomarkers knee pain was divided into tertiles resulting in three groups i.e., low (0.5–3.5), moderate (4.0–7.0), and severe (7.5–10). Patients were asked to participate in this research project with a voluntary decision and they should be competent to understand what is involved and thus, all patients provided written informed consent before study enrolment. A questionnaire was also prepared to collect specifc information from each patient during their recruitment while we got approval from the Cyprus National Bioethics Committee (ΕΕΒΚ/ΕΠ/2018/19) and the Ethics Committee on Drug Research of the University and Polytechnic Hospital La Fe, to perform the study. Family history of Osteoarthritis; was assessed, as suggested in the literature , by the question “Have any of your closest relatives (including children, siblings, parents, and grandparents) had Osteoarthritis;?” Response options: “Yes, one individual”, “Yes, two or more individuals”, “No”, or “I do not know”. Both responses “Yes, one individual” and “Yes, two or more individuals” were categorized as having a family history of Osteoarthritis;. Occupational physical exposure (occupational Osteoarthritis; risk) was evaluated using the question: “For the job or occupation you had for the longest time, did you do any of the following nearly every day?” with the following answer options: “bending for 2 hours or more”, “walking for 2 hours or more over level ground”, “kneeling for 30 minutes or more”, “squatting for 30 minutes or more”, “climbing a total of 5 or more fights of stairs”, “lifting or moving objects of 10 kg or heavier”, “driving a car for 4 hours or more”, “none of the above”. Te occupational risk was included as a categorical variable (yes/no) in statistical analyses. Tis question has previously been used in . Participants reported if they had had an injury on their knees and/or hips that caused them to visit a doctor, and if they had had previous surgery on their knee(s) and/or hip(s). Participants with a previous knee injury that could not lead to Osteoarthritis;, i.e., soft tissue injury without a fracture that could lead to arthritis or at least without a fracture involving the joint surfaces which could lead to arthritis were included in this study. For the collection of blood, separation of serum, and long storage of the samples we followed the rules proposed by the Standard Operating Procedures Internal Working Group (SOPIWG)/ Early Detection Research Network (EDRN) for specimen collection (including blood samples and management for biomarker discovery and validation) . All samples were stored at 4°C to prevent hemolysis and processed within 4h after collection. Te samples were maintained at 2–8°C while handling. Serum samples were stored in 0.5–1.0mL aliquots, at -80°C. Also, freeze-thaw cycles of the samples were avoided. All samples used were clear and transparent. Serum samples from healthy individuals and patients with EOsteoarthritis; obtained at Hospital La Fe (Valencia, Spain) were stored and processed by the Biobanco La Fe (PT17/0015/0043), following standard operating procedures with the appropriate approval of the Ethics and Scientifc Committees. Serum biomarker levels were determined in the following way: After thawing, serum samples were centrifuged at 2500g for 10min at 4°C and then diluted 1:100 for Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein;, 1:8 for Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range;, 1:4 for Procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide;. Determination of Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein; and Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; levels was carried out using the Human Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein; Quantikine ELISA Kit (assay range: 0.2–10ng/ mL) and Hyaluronan Quantikine ELISA Kit (assay range: 0.6–40ng/mL), respectively from R&D systems (Minneapolis, United States.A). Procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; levels were determined using the Human Procollagen II C-Terminal ProPeptide (Procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide;) CLIntraarticular; Kit (assay range: 15.63–1000pg/mL) from Abbexa (Cambridge, United Kingdom). All ELISA experiments were performed according to the instructions provided by the manufacture of each kit without any modifcation. All assays employed the quantitative sandwich enzyme immunoassay technique. Te concentration of the antigens of interest (i.e., biomarkers) in serum samples was determined using a relative standard curve. Samples were measured in triplicate and the mean values were used in the analysis. Te intra- and inter-assay coefcient of variance (CV) were<10.1 and 12.3% respectively for Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein;, <6.5 and 9.7% respectively for Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; and each <8% for Procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide;. Continuous variables with normal distribution were expressed as means ± standard deviation (Standard deviation.). Nonnormally distributed variables were expressed as medians and interquartile range (Interquartile range;). Te normal distribution of continuous data was analyzed with the D’Agostino & Pearson omnibus normality test. Signifcant diferences in demographic data that followed Gaussian distribution were calculated using unpaired t-test or one-way Adjusted one way analysis of variance; and adjusted by Tukey’s multiple comparison method tests for multiple comparisons. Te D’Agostino & Pearson omnibus normality test was used to assess that the levels of biomarkers in serum samples of the total study population, as well as of each of the Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade groups, were normally distributed, which they were not, and therefore nonparametric tests were subsequently used. Tus, biomarker concentrations between Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade groups (Osteoarthritis; severity) and pain groups (pain at rest and during walking) were compared using the Kruskal-Wallis H-test and followed by Dunn’s multiple comparison test. Te Mann-Whitney U-test was employed to compare the biomarker levels (pairwise comparison) in age groups (i.e., for healthy individuals and patients with EOsteoarthritis;: 40–54years and≥55years and patients with LOsteoarthritis;: 50–69years and≥70years) and gender groups. Age grouping for healthy individuals and patients with EOsteoarthritis; was carried out taking into account the mean age of participants in these groups, which was approximately 55years while the mean age of the participants in the LOsteoarthritis; was ~70years (Table 1). Te linear relationship of serum biomarkers with continuous variables  was carried out using Spearman’s correlation coefcient. Correlations were classifed as very weak (correlation coefcient (r)<0.20), weak (r=0.20–0.39), moderate (r=0.40–0.59), strong (r=0.60–0.79), or very strong (r>0.80). A multiple linear regression analysis was also conducted to evaluate the serum biomarker levels and Osteoarthritis; risk factors including age, Body mass index;, Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade, pain during resting and walking, familial Osteoarthritis;, and occupational risk. Finally, ROC curve analysis was used to evaluate the diagnostic value of serum biomarker expression in patients with early or late Osteoarthritis;. Other diagnostic parameters were also evaluated, including sensitivity, specifcity, cut-of value, and area under the ROC curve (Area Under Curve;) with a 95% confdence interval (Confdence interval.), to assess the discrimination power of each biomarker. All reported p-values were two-tailed and p-values <0.05 were considered statistically signifcant. Statistical analysis was performed using GraphPad Prism (v.8.2, GraphPad Software Inc., San Diego, CA, United States.A). ROC curve analysis and calculation of cut-of point for Procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; were carried out using MedCalc Statistical Software version 19.2.6 (MedCalc Software, Ostend, Belgium). Te demographic and clinical characteristics of the study population are illustrated in Table 1. To be included in the analysis, participants had to have a knee radiographical assessment for both knees and have replied to all questions of the questionnaires. Te study involved 38 healthy overweight individuals (23 women, 15 men) at high risk of developing Osteoarthritis; with a mean age (± Standard deviation.) of 50.7±6.3 years and a mean Body mass index; (± Standard deviation.) of 28.30±2.67 kg/m2 . Te early kneeOsteoarthritis; group consisted of 44 participants (31 women, 13 men). Mean age (± Standard deviation.) and mean Body mass index; (± Standard deviation.) in this group was 52.4±5.6 years and 27.02±4.27 kg/m2 , respectively. No statistically signifcant diferences in age or Body mass index; were observed between men and women in both the healthy and early Osteoarthritis; groups. In this study, 130 patients (32 men and 98 women) with late (established) Osteoarthritis; were also recruited. Patients with LOsteoarthritis; were also divided into a mild group (Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade of 2 in at least one knee, n=35), and a severe group (Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade of 3 or 4 in at least one knee, n=95). Mean age and Body mass index; (± Standard deviation.) in the total population of patients with LOsteoarthritis; were 70.3±8.3 years and 29.98±4.36 kg/m2 , respectively. No statistically signifcant diferences in age or Body mass index; were observed between men and women in these groups. Kellgren-Lawrence score; scores ranged from 1 to 4. Te majority of the participants (64.6%) had a Kellgren-Lawrence score; score of ≥3 while all Osteoarthritis; patients had both knees afected, and 71 patients (54.6%) had a Kellgren-Lawrence score; score of ≥3 in both knees. Also, there were no statistically signifcant diferences in Kellgren-Lawrence score; scores between the left and right knees in these groups. Osteoarthritis; was graded Kellgren-Lawrence score; ≥3 in 26 of 32 (81%) men and 58 of 92 (59.2%) women (p > 0.05). Tere were no statistically signifcant diferences between men and women in pain scores (p > 0.05), except the pain score in the right knee (p < 0.01). Tere were also statistical diferences in pain scores between patients with early- and lateOsteoarthritis; (p < 0.01). In addition, there were no statistically signifcant diferences in Kellgren-Lawrence score; scores between the left and right knees (p > 0.05) in all groups as revealed by Student’s t-test (data not shown). Te prevalence of knee Osteoarthritis; was assessed based on different defnitions among participants per group, and all observations are presented in Table 2. Initially, we assessed the prevalence of knee Osteoarthritis; using a 15-scale bilateral defnition i.e., a combination of Kellgren-Lawrence score; grades of both knees (0:0), (1:0), (1:1), …, (4:2), (4:3), (4:4), as illustrated in Table 2. However, according to this defnition, some groups consisted of a small number of participants. Terefore, we subsequently, assessed knee Osteoarthritis; prevalence using a 9 -scale bilateral defnition as previously described  i.e., the mean Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade of both knees to allow linear associations (Table 2). Te most prevalent mean Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade was 0.0 followed by 3.0 and 2.0 accounting for 35.8, 29.7, and 16.0% of participants, respectively. Te prevalence of knee Osteoarthritis; according to this defnition in the total population of this study as well as per group is summarized in Table 2. It should be pointed out that the main advantage of combining Kellgren-Lawrence score; scores is that smaller group numbers are created (i.e., 15 using the combination of Kellgren-Lawrence score; scores vs 9 using the bilateral mean Kellgren-Lawrence score; scores) which enhances the reported confdence intervals . Importantly, the Kellgren-Lawrence score; grades of the knees are neither omitted (e.g., in several reports the Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade that is used for analysis is the higher one in patients who have both knees afected) nor summarized . Terefore, in this study, for analysis, the mean Kellgren-Lawrence score; grades of both knees were used.Te levels of the three biomarkers in the healthy group, EOsteoarthritis;, and LOsteoarthritis; groups as well as in patients with mildLOsteoarthritis; and severe-LOsteoarthritis; are illustrated in Fig. 1 (a-c). We initially compared the levels of the three biomarkers among healthy individuals, EOsteoarthritis;, and LOsteoarthritis; (total population) groups using the Kruskal Wallis and adjusted for multiple comparisons by Dunn’s multiple comparisons method with an α of 0.05. As shown in Fig. 1a and Fig. 1b, respectively, median (Interquartile range;) sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein; and sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; values were higher in the LOsteoarthritis; group compared to the EAO and healthy group, but these diferences did not reach statistical signifcance (p>0.05). Tere were no statistically signifcant diferences in the concentrations of sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein;, sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range;, and sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; between the healthy group and the EOsteoarthritis; group (Fig. 1 a-c). Interestingly, the sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; levels were signifcantly lower (p<0.0001) in the LOsteoarthritis; group compared to those in the healthy and EOsteoarthritis; groups as resulted by Kruskal-Wallis test followed by Dunn’s multiple comparisons (Fig. 1c). We subsequently examined the diferences in biomarker levels among healthy individuals, EOsteoarthritis;, mildand severe-LOsteoarthritis; groups using the Kruskal Wallis and adjusted for multiple comparisons by Dunn’s multiple comparisons method with an α of 0.05. Based on this classifcation of LOsteoarthritis;, the median (Interquartile range;) sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein; levels of 316.0 (217.2–421.88) ng/mL in the severe-LOsteoarthritis; group were signifcantly higher compared to those in the healthy  and the EOsteoarthritis; group  (Fig. 1a). However, there was no statistically signifcant diference (p>0.05) in the sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein; levels between the EOsteoarthritis; group and i) healthy group and ii) severe-LOsteoarthritis; group. Serum Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; levels showed a trend of slight increase as Osteoarthritis; severity increased, but these diferences did not reach statistical signifcance (p>0.05) (Fig. 1b). On the contrary, the sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; levels showed a trend of decreased values as Osteoarthritis; severity increased (Fig. 1c). Median values (Interquartile range;) of sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; levels  were signifcantly (p<0.0001) higher in the healthy group compared to the mild-LOsteoarthritis; group  and severe-LOsteoarthritis; group . Tere was also statistically signifcant diference (p<0.0001) in sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; levels between the EOsteoarthritis; group and the mild- LOsteoarthritis; group as well as the severe-LOsteoarthritis; group. Tere was no statistically signifcant diference (p>0.05) in sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; levels between the health and EOsteoarthritis; groups as well as between the mild and severe Osteoarthritis; groups (Fig. 1c). Spearman correlation was also employed to assess the collinearity of the biomarkers (Table 3). Te results revealed that sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein; correlated very weakly and negatively with sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; in the total population (r=−0.184, p<0.01). In the healthy group, there were no correlations among the three biomarkers. Interestingly, in the EOsteoarthritis; group, sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein; was positively and moderately correlated with sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; (r=0.448, p<0.01). In the LOsteoarthritis; group, sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein; was very weakly and positively correlated with sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; (r=0.177, p<0.05) while a weak and negative correlation was obtained between sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein; and Procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; (r=−0.307, p<0.01). Patients were divided into four groups according to the bilateral mean knee pain intensity both at rest Fig. 2 a-c) and during walking (Fig. 2 d-f). Te presence of low or moderate pain did not afect the levels of sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein;, however, the levels of this biomarker were signifcantly higher (p < 0.05) in the group with severe pain compared to those without knee pain at rest (Fig. 2a). Also, the levels of sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein; were higher in the group with moderate pain during walking (p < 0.05) compared to the group without pain (Fig. 2d). Tere was no signifcant diference (p > 0.05) in sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; levels among the four pain groups both at rest (Fig. 2b) and during walking (Fig. 2e). Te levels of sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; were signifcantly higher in individuals without knee pain at rest compared to those with low, moderate, and severe knee pain (p < 0.0001) (Fig. 2c). Tere was also statistically signifcant diference in sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; levels between the low- and severe-pain at rest groups (p < 0.05). Tere was statistically signifcant diference in the sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; levels between the group without pain during walking and i) the group with moderate (p < 0.0001) and ii) severe pain group (p < 0.0001). Tere was also statistically signifcant diference in sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; levels between the group with low pain during walking and both the moderate and severe pain groups (p < 0.001) (Fig. 2f). Spearman’s correlation coefcient was calculated to examine the association between the levels of biomarkers in serum and risk factors (continuous factors) for Osteoarthritis; including age, Body mass index;, Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade (bilateral mean value), as well as pain at rest (resting Visual analog score;), and walking (walking Visual analog score;) (Table 4). Te levels of sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein; increased with age and Body mass index; and were weakly correlated with Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade. Furthermore, sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein; levels were very weakly correlated with pain at rest, but they were not correlated with pain during walking. Serum Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; levels were weakly correlated only with age and very weakly correlated with Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade. Interestingly, sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; levels were signifcantly and negatively correlated to Osteoarthritis; risk factors such as age and Body mass index;, as well as with Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade and bilateral mean pain intensity at rest and during walking (Table 4). It should be noted that the negative coefcient values indicated that the variables are inversely related (i.e., as the value of one variable increases, the value of the other tends to decrease). Moreover, we performed a multiple linear regression analysis to identify potential associations among the parameters of age, Body mass index;, pain, Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade, gender, familiar Osteoarthritis;, and occupational risk with each of the biomarkers (Table 5). Te results revealed that serum Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein; and Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; were associated with age and occupational risk, whereas Body mass index;, gender, Kellgren-Lawrence score; score, pain at resting and during walking as well as with a previous knee injury and familial Osteoarthritis; exerted no statistically signifcant infuence on the levels of serum Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein; and Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range;. Interestingly, the levels of serum Procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; were independently associated with Kellgren-Lawrence score; grades (p<0.0001), while the other factors did not have a statistical relationship with the levels of this biomarker. Te diagnostic efciency of the three biomarkers i.e., their ability to diferentiate patients with EOsteoarthritis; or LOsteoarthritis; from healthy individuals, was further evaluated by the sensitivity, specifcity, Youden index, and the area under the ROC curve (Table 6). Te three serum biomarkers have limited diagnostic potential in early knee osteoarthritis because the reliability of the cutof values for the development of EOsteoarthritis; was low (Area Under Curve; <0.6; Table 6). Te ROC curves for the three serum biomarkers for EOsteoarthritis; and LOsteoarthritis; are illustrated in Fig. 3. Interestingly, our analysis revealed that among three serum markers, Procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; had the highest Area Under Curve; value (0.980, 95%Confdence interval.: 0.945–0.995; p<0.0001) for LOsteoarthritis; diagnosis, followed by Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein; (Table 6). Terefore, according to our analysis, sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; could discriminate between patients with LOsteoarthritis; and healthy individuals, with a sensitivity of 92.6% and specifcity of 92.1%. Te cut-of value of Procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; for LOsteoarthritis; diagnosis was 465.4pg/mL. We subsequently divided the participants of the healthy group and EOsteoarthritis; into 2 age categories namely age 40–54years (n=28 in both groups) and age≥55years groups (n=10 in healthy group and n=16 in EOsteoarthritis; group). Likewise, we divided the participants with established (late) Osteoarthritis; into two age categories namely age 50–69years (n=57) and age≥70years (n=73) groups. Patients with mild- and severe- LOsteoarthritis; were also divided into the 50–69years (n=57) and age≥70years (n=73) groups (Fig. 4 a-c). As illustrated in Fig. 4a, in patients with EOsteoarthritis;, sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein; levels were signifcantly lower (p<0.05) in the age 40–54years group compared to the age≥55years group. Median (Interquartile range;) values of sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; were signifcantly higher (p<0.05) in the age≥70years group compared to the age 50–69years group in both the total population of patients with LOsteoarthritis; as wells as in patients with mild-LOsteoarthritis; (Fig. 4b). Tere was no statistically signifcant diference in sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; levels among all groups (Fig. 4c). Spearman correlation analysis was then used to assess the correlation between serum biomarkers and the age of participants in the diferent groups (Table 7). In the healthy and EOsteoarthritis; groups, there was a weak correlation between sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein; levels and the age of participants. In the total population of patients with LOsteoarthritis;, there was a weak correlation between the levels of sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein; and sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; and the age of participants. Interestingly, in the mild-LOsteoarthritis; group, there was a moderate correlation between the sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; levels and the age of patients, while in the severeLOsteoarthritis; group a weak correlation between the sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein; levels and the age of participants was observed. Comparison between genders (Fig. 5) by the MannWhitney U test revealed that the levels of sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein; were signifcantly higher in men compared to women in the total population of patients with LOsteoarthritis; (mild and severe) as well as in the severe-LOsteoarthritis; group (Fig. 5a). Tere was no statistically signifcant diference in sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; levels between men and women in all groups as shown in Fig. 5b. Te levels of sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; were signifcantly lower (p<0.05) in females compared to males in the total population of participants (Fig. 5c). It should be noted that statistical analysis of the mild-LOsteoarthritis; group was not performed because of the small number of male participants in this group. Tis study aimed to examine whether there are diferences in the levels of two cartilage biomarkers (Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein; and Procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide;) and a synovitis biomarker (Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range;) among overweight healthy individuals, patients with EOsteoarthritis;, and patients with LOsteoarthritis; and examined whether the levels of these biomarkers in the three groups are associated with Osteoarthritis; severity, knee pain at rest and during walking as well as with other Osteoarthritis; risk factors. It has been generally accepted that a Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade of 2 is the cut-of for defning radiographic knee Osteoarthritis; features . Terefore, in this study, we divided the patients with established Osteoarthritis; into the mild group (Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade of 2 in at least one knee) and severe group (Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade of 3 or 4 in at least one knee). Because the majority of the patients in the LOsteoarthritis; group had both knees afected, we used a 9-scale bilateral defnition, i.e., the mean Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade of both knees, to assess the severity of knee Osteoarthritis; (Table 2). In the current study, we demonstrate a clear correlation between the markers of cartilage synthesis (Procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide;) and the severity of Osteoarthritis;. Importantly, ROC analysis revealed that the Area Under Curve; was 0.980, (95% Confdence interval.: 0.945–0.995; p<0.001), indicating high diagnostic accuracy of sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; i.e., this biomarker is suitable for the diferentiation of healthy individuals at high risk of developing Osteoarthritis; from patents with LOsteoarthritis; (Fig. 3 and Table 6). It should be pointed out that our analysis revealed that sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; is not a suitable biomarker for the diagnosis of EOsteoarthritis;. Moreover, our results revealed that sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; and sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein; can detect pain-associated diferences in patients regardless of the Osteoarthritis; severity. Te most signifcant fnding of this work was that reduced serum levels of Procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide;, which is one biomarker of cartilage synthesis, in patients with established Osteoarthritis; were correlated with knee Osteoarthritis; risk factors such as age and obesity. Type II collagen is a main component of the cartilage matrix that is synthesized by chondrocytes and its synthesis and breakdown are linked to cartilage metabolism. In detail, type II collagen is synthesized as a premature protein consists of three extra domains: a signal peptide, the procollagen type II N-terminal propeptide (PIINP), and the procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide (Procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide;). Tese propeptides are cleaved of and released into biological fuids (e.g., blood, urine) during maturation . Tus, the levels of these peptides in biological fuids refect type II collagen synthesis and these two components could be used as markers to monitor the rate of Osteoarthritis; progression . It has also been demonstrated that Procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; levels in the joint fuid might be a prognostic marker for early Osteoarthritis; in the knee as the concentration of Procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; was found to correlate with risk factors including obesity and varus knee alignment . Post-traumatic damage of cartilage and periarticular tissues may also contribute to the development of Osteoarthritis;  while obesity has been identifed as a risk factor for the development of Osteoarthritis; . Our analysis also revealed that sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; concentration is also correlated with obesity and associated with occupational risk. In patients with severe Osteoarthritis;, we found decreased levels of sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; compared to healthy individuals and patients with early Osteoarthritis; and these fndings are well in agreement with previous studies . Another interesting result in this study was that the alterations in sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; levels are associated not only with the severity of knee Osteoarthritis; but also with knee pain (Table 4). Te mean levels of sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; in the groups with mild Osteoarthritis; and severe Osteoarthritis; were more than 2.5-fold lower than those in the healthy and EOsteoarthritis; groups (Fig. 1c) suggesting that this decrease was not solely driven by factors such as age and obesity that are also correlated with the Procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; levels (Table 3). Our results are in good agreement with previous studies suggesting that Procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; concentrations in biological fuids might be an ideal prognostic marker for Osteoarthritis; in the knee as the level of Procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; was found to correlate with risk factors such as obesity . Te progression of joint damage in Osteoarthritis; is likely to result from an imbalance between cartilage degradation and synthesis processes and it has been proposed that quantifying the procollagen peptides in biological fuids could result in a better understanding of Osteoarthritis; disease pathology and would provide means for evaluation of anabolic disease-modifying Osteoarthritis; drugs . Furthermore, because Procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; is released only during the synthesis of the new molecules, its production is known to refect the rate of type II collagen synthesis and cartilage metabolism . It was previously reported that both synovial fuid and serum levels of Procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; were increased in individuals with uncertain knee Osteoarthritis; (Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade of 0 or 1) . On the contrary, the serum levels of Procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; were decreased in patients with earlystage of knee Osteoarthritis; (Kellegren and Laurence; grade 2), where the radiographic joint space narrowing became clear . A decrease of sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; levels  and changes in the ratios of cartilage collagen degradation (C-terminal neopeptide/C2C and telopeptide fragment of collagen type-II/CTX-II) and synthesis (Procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide;) markers  were also reported with the onset of knee Osteoarthritis; (Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade 2 vs Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade 1). Interestingly, we also found a weak correlation between sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein; levels and Osteoarthritis; severity (Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade), age, and Body mass index; (Table 4). Regression analysis also revealed a correlation between sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein; levels and i) age and ii) occupational risk (Table 5). Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein; is a pentameric non-collagen protein related to the thrombospondin family, and also a constituent of articular cartilage and several studies have demonstrated that sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein; is elevated in Osteoarthritis; and after knee injury  and therefore it might have some value as a diagnostic and/or prognostic marker of knee Osteoarthritis; . Te majority of the previous studies investigating sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein; as a biomarker for knee Osteoarthritis; have shown that the levels of this biomarker are associated with structural and metabolic changes in Osteoarthritis; . Some studies investigating the association of sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein; levels with clinical symptoms have shown inconsistent results . Our analysis revealed that the level of Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein; in serum is signifcantly higher in patients with severe Osteoarthritis; (Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade of 3 or 4) compare to that in the healthy group. Interestingly, our results also demonstrated that the serum level of Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein; is also signifcantly higher in the severe Osteoarthritis; group compared to that in the mild Osteoarthritis; group, highlighting its potential as a prognostic biomarker as well as a biomarker for monitoring the progression of the disease. Elevated levels of sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein; have been associated with knee pain . Interestingly it has also been demonstrated that serum Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein; levels are increased in patients with pain in the knees and without any radiological abnormalities, indicating early cartilage damage in these patients compared with healthy individuals . In another study, the concertation of Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein; in serum has been correlated with pain score but not Osteoarthritis; severity (radiological grading), while it also negatively correlated with the progression of the disease. Tus, Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein; levels can also be used as a prognostic marker to predict patients at risk of rapid progression . In contrast to previous fndings , we could not demonstrate signifcant associations between sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; levels and clinical parameters including Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade (r=0.1399) and pain at rest (r=0.0263) and during walking (r=0.0059) (Table 4). However, in the multiple regression analysis sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; was correlated only with the Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade (Table 5). Synovitis plays a vital role in the onset of Osteoarthritis;  through the production of Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; and pro-infammatory cytokines including tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin 1β. Tese cytokines induce the production of matrix metalloproteinase by fbroblasts resulting in the degradation of the articular cartilage matrix . Previous studies have studied the association of sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; with the progression of knee Osteoarthritis;  (see also  and references cited therein), however, the data were limited. Sasaki et al. reported the correlation of sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; and radiographic progression of knee Osteoarthritis; in a more general population including healthy individuals and patients with both early- and severe- knee Osteoarthritis; for 5 years . Even though the levels of sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; were positively correlated with Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade progression the patients included in the study by Sasaki et al. were only middle-aged women and young individuals at very low risk of developing knee Osteoarthritis; . To better evaluate the role of Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; in the development and progression of knee Osteoarthritis; a wider range of ages may be needed. It has been previously reported that the sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; concentration might be also a specifc biomarker for Osteoarthritis; of other joints including the lumbar spine . It has also been reported by Inoue et al.  that the correlation between sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; levels and Osteoarthritis; was higher in patients with knee Osteoarthritis; compared to those with hip Osteoarthritis; or hand Osteoarthritis;. However, sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; levels were increased with age because of an impaired ability of older individuals to metabolize Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; . Furthermore, other factors may contribute to the elevated sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; concentration in the elderly population such as hepatic failure, renal failure, and rheumatoid arthritis (Rheumatoid arthritis;) . Terefore, patients sufering from hepatic and renal failure as well as from Rheumatoid arthritis; were excluded from this study allowing us to evaluate the correlation of sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; concentration and severity of knee Osteoarthritis; more accurately. Te lack of signifcant associations between Hyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; levels and Osteoarthritis; stage/severity suggests that this biomarker may not be a sensitive measure of the role of bone turnover in the progress of Osteoarthritis;. Taken together the result of this study and those of others  indicate that sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; levels might not be an ideal biomarker for monitoring the progression of Osteoarthritis; in elderly people. Our analysis also revealed that there were no statistically signifcant diferences in sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein; and sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; levels between men and women in the total population; however, the sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; levels were statistically diferent (p<0.05). Moreover, biomarker levels between males and female groups of identical Osteoarthritis; severity (Kellgren-Lawrence score; scores) revealed that the levels of sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein; and sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; levels were higher in females compared to those in males in some but not all Kellgren-Lawrence score; score groups, but the levels of sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; were found to be higher in males compared to females in the majority of Kellgren-Lawrence score; grade groups suggesting the association of these markers with the female gender in Osteoarthritis; , and also warrants further research on the potential relevance of gender as an isolated factor for the use of these biomarkers in Osteoarthritis; in the context of structural features. Females are at a higher risk of knee Osteoarthritis; while several epidemiological studies revealed that the prevalence of knee Osteoarthritis; in women is higher than in men . Tis study has some limitations. Te recruitment of individuals has been carried out in two diferent research centers in two diferent countries (Spain and Cyprus) and thus we compared cohorts that difer not only in knee Osteoarthritis; severity or presence (i.e. healthy individual and patients with EOsteoarthritis; Spain, vs patients with LOsteoarthritis; from Cyprus), but also in other potentially important aspects (e.g., recruitment process, assessment of knee Osteoarthritis;, etc.) apart from the actual disease criteria. Tis also includes the risk of cluster bias as the two counties have signifcant diferences in population, geography, and healthcare system, however, this work was part of a European project involving the recruitment of individuals from two diferent countries (i.e. Spain and Cyprus). Despite this, we managed to follow the same protocols for the recruitment of patients and the same standard operation processes for blood collection, handling, and storage as well as for the determination of the concentration of serum biomarkers. Te patient number of our study was relatively small, while the sample size was not appropriately powered and thus further studies with larger participant numbers and properly powered are needed. Te study was also limited by the fact that no control group (i.e., healthy non-obese young individuals) was included. Terefore, a comparison of biomarker and pain levels between healthy controls and our study population was not carried out in our analysis. All patients with established Osteoarthritis; had Kellgren-Lawrence score; scores ranging from 2 to 4 and suffered from clinically relevant advanced knee Osteoarthritis; and thus they underwent knee replacement surgery. Tus, the reported biomarker levels represent the bone and cartilage turnover status of patients requiring surgery mainly due to functional/pain limitations and/or Osteoarthritis;induced symptoms. It should also be noted that the majority of patients with established (late) Osteoarthritis; (mild Osteoarthritis; and severe Osteoarthritis; groups) sufered from bilateral knee Osteoarthritis;. It has been proposed that the presence of unilateral Osteoarthritis; may infuence patient-reported physical function impairment more than bilateral Osteoarthritis; . Another limitation of our study was that we determined biomarker levels using ELISA, which may introduce both systematic and random errors. Moreover, while successful validation of a biomarker via ELISA depends on several factors including patient selection, collection methods, assay selection/handling, and stability of the marker. Nevertheless, we developed our SOPs for the determination of biomarkers levels via ELISA to minimize potential errors. In this study, we were only able to measure the concentration of sCartilage oligomeric matrix protein;, sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide;, and sHyaluronan; Interquartile range;: Interquartile range; despite other biomarkers such as PIIntraarticular;NP , C-telopeptide of type II collagen (CTX-II) , and synovial cytokines , and others  have been reported. Moreover, there was a statistical limitation because the relationship between each of the three biomarkers and the severity of Osteoarthritis; and other Osteoarthritis; risk factors was assessed using two tests, linear regression analysis, and Spearman’s Correlation test. We did not use other analysis methods, e.g., multivariate regression analysis, because we did not want to statistically overestimate. Biomarker levels might be infuenced by other factors, including age, obesity, gender, and disease stage. Despite the aforementioned limitations, the results of this work based on a general population consisting of healthy individuals at high risk of developing Osteoarthritis;, patients with early Osteoarthritis; as well as patients with established Osteoarthritis;, demonstrated that the sProcollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; concentration is strongly associated with the severity of knee Osteoarthritis;, knee pain both at resting and during walking and Osteoarthritis; risk factors. Importantly our study highlights the potential of Procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; as a serum diagnostic biomarker for osteoarthritis and may facilitate diagnosis and monitoring the progression of the disease with relatively high sensitivity and specifcity while the cutof value of Procollagen type II C-terminal propeptide; concentration predictive of the progression of Osteoarthritis; was estimated. Further studies on the biomarkers that we examined here and the inclusion of additional biomarkers of the bone and cartilage turnover, in larger groups, are needed to make the results of this study more reliable and objective.