Osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) is the leading cause of chronic musculoskeletal pain worldwide and ranked as one of the highest contributors to global disability . Patients with knee Osteoarthritis; (KOsteoarthritis;) rate among the lowest in healthrelated quality of life (HrQuartiles;uality of life;) compared with patients sufering from other chronic musculoskeletal disorders . Patients with Osteoarthritis; sufer from more comorbidities  and have a higher risk of all-cause mortality than the general population . Arthritis is one of the most common reasons for primary care visits  and the Osteoarthritis; consultation rate in Swedish health care is expected to increase the coming decade . Recommended core treatments for patients with KOsteoarthritis; are patient education, exercise, and if necessary, weight reduction . Nonsurgical treatments delay or prevent the need of surgery up to 7 years among more than 50% of patients with KOsteoarthritis; . Most patients with Osteoarthritis; can successfully be managed in primary care without surgery. Although the number of physicians is growing, there is still a shortage of physicians in Swedish primary care . A similar trend of escalation of Osteoarthritis; consultations and lack of physicians in primary care has been seen even in other countries . A more sustainable model of care, where patients get evidence-based non-surgical Osteoarthritis; treatment faster, could be physiotherapists as primary assessors. Direct access to physiotherapists has been implemented in many countries already . Several systematic reviews have reported about direct access to physiotherapist, which is suggested to be safe, more efective and less costly care model for patients with musculoskeletal disorders in primary care, community care, hospital, outpatient clinics and occupational clinics . Te results are similar when focusing specifcally on direct access to physiotherapists in primary care . Many patients believe that a physician consultation is required before physiotherapist assessment and treatment . Also, former experiences of physician assessments and expectations of further investigations such as radiography are other reasons for consulting physician frst . Despite diferent assessment strategies, where physiotherapists perform a musculoskeletal examination and physicians in addition have access to imaging when diagnosing KOsteoarthritis;, there is high diagnostic agreement between physiotherapists and orthopaedic surgeons or sports medicine physicians for knee pain disorders including KOsteoarthritis; . As radiography is unnecessary in diagnosing patients with typical presentation of Osteoarthritis; , both physicians and physiotherapists can assess patients with suspected KOsteoarthritis;. Physiotherapists and orthopaedic surgeons have similar high diagnostic accuracy compared to magnetic resonance imaging of musculoskeletal disorders (75% respectively 81%), and signifcantly higher accuracy than family practice and internal medicine physicians who have an accuracy of 35% . Moreover, Samsson et al.  concluded that physiotherapists and orthopaedic surgeons determined similar diagnoses, and recommended similar management for patients with musculoskeletal disorders. Mean total costs are 10–20% lower for direct access to physiotherapists compared to physician-led care for patients with musculoskeletal disorders . Non-surgical treatments account for one ffth of all Osteoarthritis;related costs, including 4% for physiotherapy . For patients who also sufer from comorbidities, the costs increase with the number of comorbidities . Systematic reviews report that physiotherapist as primary assessor appears to be a cost-efective management for patients with musculoskeletal disorders, yet there is a need for more randomized controlled studies . Due to the heterogeneity of musculoskeletal disorders included in the reviews, and lack of presenting specifc diseases, it is unclear if these costs also applies to patients with KOsteoarthritis; which is a long-lasting disease with long treatment periods. Tis study is based on a clinical trial evaluating the impact on HrQuartiles;uality of life; in patients with KOsteoarthritis; when physiotherapists and physicians act as primary assessors. Te results implied that both providers are equally qualifed as primary assessors . In this study, we are interested in how the frst treatment period of early-stage KOsteoarthritis; is afected from an economic perspective by different primary assessors. For this purpose, we evaluated the cost-efectiveness from a societal and health care perspective 1 year after frst assessment, comparing the intervention physiotherapist as primary assessor with traditional physician-led care in primary care for patients with KOsteoarthritis;. A cost-efectiveness analysis (Costefectiveness analysis;) alongside an assessor-blinded randomized controlled pragmatic trial, which has been described elsewhere . Primary assessment, diagnosis, and treatment either by a physiotherapist or a physician in primary care were compared. Te study was conducted in primary care in southwestern Sweden during 2013–2017. Te societal perspective and a health care perspective were applied in the Costefectiveness analysis;. Te societal perspective investigates the welfare efects, and includes all resources, which in this study are individual resources (productivity loss) and health care resources. Te societal perspective was considered as the primary perspective since it includes the full set of identifed cost consequences. Te health care perspective represents the payer’s perspective and consists of cost items in the health care sector. Te study was retrospectively registered (29/01/2019) in clinicaltrial.gov, ID: NComputed tomography;03822533. Te Swedish Ethical Review Authority approved the study, reference number: 979–12. All participants provided written informed consent. Te power analysis was calculated for the clinical trial. Eighty percent power was achieved with 43 patients per group using a two-sided t-test with a minimal clinical difference of Euroqol 5 dimensions 3 levels questionnaire (EuroQuartiles;uality of life; five dimension;-3L) index at 0.121 , standard deviation (Standard deviation;) 0.2 and a signifcance level set at p<0.05. Te dropout rate was estimated to be 14%, giving a total desired sample size of 100 patients, with 50 patients per group. terventions Patients were randomized to be assessed and diagnosed either by physiotherapist or physician frst. Due to the pragmatic setting, assessments, diagnostic tests and treatment plans varied. Usual physiotherapist assessments could comprise patient history, diagnostic tests (measuring joint range of motion, muscle strength in lower extremities), diferential diagnostics to rule out other knee injuries, and functional assessment with physical performance tests. Physician assessment could be similar to the physiotherapist assessment, but also include radiography in the diagnostic evaluation. If needed, patients consulted the other health care provider any time after the frst assessment (Fig. 1). Both groups’ treatment strategies were individually adapted based on national treatment guidelines . Physiotherapy treatment involved individual and/or group treatment. Te individual treatment consisted of information about KOsteoarthritis;, introduction to an exercise program (physiotherapist-led or home exercising), pain treatment or walking aids. Group treatment was based on the Swedish national treatment program Better management of Osteoarthritis; (BOsteoarthritis;) . Te BOsteoarthritis;-program comprised three sessions of patient education and 6 weeks of exercising either at the rehabilitation centre or at home. Physician treatment could include information, medical prescriptions, and referrals to radiography, a physiotherapist or another health care provider. Demographic data was assessed at baseline including age, gender, education level, current employment, pain duration and body mass index; (calculated with measured length and weight). Pain intensity was measured using a visual analogue scale (Visual analogue scale;) 0–100mm  and physical function with the 30-s chair stand test . HrQuartiles;uality of life; was used as the generic measure for health improvement and was measured at baseline, 3-, 6- and 12-month follow-up. Te time horizon of 1 year was chosen to evaluate the impact of diferent primary assessors and the frst treatment period of early KOsteoarthritis;. In general, treatment periods end within 6 months and thereafter the patients continue their rehabilitation through selfmanagement. HrQuartiles;uality of life; was measured with EuroQuartiles;uality of life; five dimension;-3L index - Swedish version . Te index was calculated using the United Kingdom tarif  and ranges between −0.594 to 1 where 1 indicates full health. For each participant, EuroQuartiles;uality of life; five dimension;-3L index was used when calculating quality adjusted life years (quality assurance;LY)  using linear interpolation between each measurement point and the trapezoidal rule to calculate the “area under the curve”. Te following data was extracted from medical records to calculate total health care costs: physiotherapist - visits and telephone calls, physician - visits including telephone calls, drug prescriptions, writing letters, nurse - visits and telephone calls, referrals to radiography, referrals to orthopaedic surgeons and sick leave periods. Physician and physiotherapist medical records were collected retrospectively after the last 12-month follow-up. Health care use and prescribed drugs were collected from the regional health care databases of Region Västra Götaland VEGA and Digitalis. VEGA included information on the individual level about inpatient and outpatient health care use, locations of the health care/rehabilitations centres, diagnoses and medical measures. Costs are presented in Euro (Euro (currency);), and annual average exchange rates were used for the Swedish Krona (Standard error;K) for the study period (2013–2017). Data was collected from Te Riksbank, Sweden’s central bank. Standard costs for primary care visits were used for the years 2013–2017 when the study was conducted. Clinical estimations from physiotherapists, physicians and nurses were used to calculate durations for telephone calls and other administrative patient related activities (drug prescriptions which were not included in the visit and writing letters about test results). Inclusion criteria for data extraction from the drug database were prescribed drugs belonging to the Anatomical Terapeutic Chemical Classifcation groups M01 anti-infammatory and anti-rheumatic products, M02 topical products for joint and muscular pain, M03 muscle relaxants, M09 other drugs for disorders of the musculoskeletal system, N02A opioids, N02B other analgesics and antipyretics. Te following variables were obtained from the database: collected drugs, substance, strength, amount, total cost, and beneft cost and patients’ charge for the drugs. Productivity loss were calculated with mean gross salary including social fees (31.42%) using data from the National Board of Health and Welfare for the area where the study was conducted. Productivity loss was valued with the human capital approach, which includes all work hours lost due to health problems and health care visits . Number of sick leave days were extracted from medical certifcates in medical records. Productivity loss due to health care visits were based on presumed visiting times from clinical estimations: 45min for a physiotherapist visit, 10min for a physiotherapist call, 30min for a physician visit, 15min for a physician call, 15min for a nurse visit, 20min for a nurse call, 1 h for inpatient visits (radiography, orthopaedic surgeon), and plus 1 h for travel and waiting time for each visit. Net mean salary was used for unpaid work if the patient was on sick leave or retired. Data was analysed descriptively and presented as numbers and percent, mean and Standard deviation; or median and 25th to 75th percentiles. The analyses were applied with intention-to-treat where all the patients received the randomized allocated intervention – first assessment by either physiotherapist or physician. Analyses with this dataset including the follow-ups will be mentioned as complete case (Complete case;). Comparative analyses with independent samples t-test and standard linear regression were used to analyse differences in mean costs and mean quality assurance;LYs. These analyses are presented with 95% confidence interval (Confidence interval;) and the significance level was set at p < 0.05. Regression analyses of mean quality assurance;LYs were adjusted with baseline differences in EQuartiles;5D-3L index . Mean quality assurance;LY calculations were analysed with three different datasets: Complete case;, and datasets with imputed data for missing values of EuroQuartiles;uality of life; five dimension;-3L index using imputations with last observation carried forward (Last observation carried forward;) and multiple imputation (Multiple Imputation;) (Fig. 2). We used two different approaches (Last observation carried forward; and Multiple Imputation;) to deal with missing data as a robustness check of the results. quality assurance;LYs were recalculated in the new imputed datasets before performing comparative regression analyses. Imputations with Last observation carried forward; used the last observation of EuroQuartiles;uality of life; five dimension;-3L index in each subject and imputed the value for every follow-up that had a missing value of this variable. Multiple Imputation; was applied in Statistical Package for Social Science (Spropensity scores;S) Windows, Version 25.0 , using linear regressions to generate random numbers for missing values of EuroQuartiles;uality of life; five dimension;-3L index. Missing values were checked for random patterns. Imputed with following predictor variables: group, age, gender, body mass index;, education level, baseline value of pain intensity and 30-s chair stand test, and EuroQuartiles;uality of life; five dimension;-3L index at baseline and all the follow-ups. Te Multiple Imputation; procedure created fve diferent imputed datasets, which were used in the comparative regression analyses and resulted in output for each imputed dataset plus pooled results with estimation of what the results would have been if the original dataset had no missing values. Tese statistical analyses were performed in Spropensity scores;S. Te Costefectiveness analysis; compared costs and efects for the two alternatives (physiotherapist or physician as primary assessor) and were based on collected data from the clinical trial. Te results are an incremental cost-efectiveness ratio (Incremental costeffectiveness ratio;), i.e. the ratio between the diference in mean costs and mean quality assurance;LYs between the groups from baseline to the 12-month follow-up (∆Cost/∆quality assurance;LYs). Costs and quality assurance;LYs remain undiscounted due to the follow up being confned to 1 year . Non-parametric bootstrapping was conducted to demonstrate the uncertainties surrounding the Incremental costeffectiveness ratio;. Te results of the bootstrapping are presented in a costefectiveness plane (Cost-efectiveness plane;) to illustrate the range of 200 bootstrap resampled Incremental costeffectiveness ratio;s and a 95% Confidence interval; if applicable. Te Incremental costeffectiveness ratio;s fall into one of four quadrants in the Cost-efectiveness plane;; upper right quadrant/north east corner – the intervention costs more and has better efect than the control treatment; lower right quadrant/south east corner – costs less and better efect; lower left quadrant/ south west corner – the intervention costs less and has less efect; upper left quadrant/north west corner – costs more and less efect. Te cost-efectiveness acceptability curve (Costefectiveness analysis;denylyl cyclase;) illustrates the probability that the intervention group “Physiotherapist as primary assessor” is cost-efective compared with the control group “Physician as primary assessor”. Te bootstrap analyses were performed in STATA 17  with Multiple Imputation; using “nearest neighbour matching” and with same predictor variables as mentioned above. To determine if the care model with physiotherapist as primary assessor was more cost-efective than a physician as primary assessor for patients with suspected KOsteoarthritis;, 35 patients were assessed by physiotherapist frst and 34 patients by a physician frst. Sixty-four percent completed the 12-month follow-up (40% (14/35) dropout in the physiotherapist group and 32% (11/34) in the physician group). Medical records, i.e. records of assessment or treatments for knee disorders, were available in 67% (46/69) for physiotherapist journals and 59% (41/69) for physician journals. Available data from regional databases were 59% (41/69), eight patients withdrew from the study and 20 patients did not reply when contacted for approval for further data extraction from the regional databases. Patient characteristics (Table 1) have been described earlier . Most patients in this study consulted a physiotherapist (Fig. 1 and Table 2). Te majority of the control group were referred to physiotherapy after a physician consultation. Tere were 26 patients who only had physiotherapy and 14 who only had physician consultations. Seven patients in the physiotherapist group consulted a physician as well, and 14 patients in the physician group sought a physiotherapist for further treatment. On average, patients in the physiotherapist group consulted a physiotherapist four times individually plus two group visits and had 0.3 physician visits. Patients who had a physician as primary assessor had on average 1.5 physician visits and four individual physiotherapist visits plus 1.5 group visits (Table 3). Patients in the physician group were more frequently referred to radiography than in the physiotherapist group (39% physician group, 9% physiotherapist group). Less than 10% were referred to an orthopaedic surgeon for further examination (physiotherapist group 6%, physician group 14%) (Table 2). Most patients who needed a physician consultation were managed by a nurse frst via a telephone call (Table 3). Seventy percent received either an Osteoarthritis; diagnosis according to the ICD 10-Standard error;-diagnoses (M17 Gonarthrosis, M19 Arthrosis), or the assessor diagnosed with “gonarthrosis” or “arthrosis” in free text in the medical journal. Te most common physiotherapy treatments were exercising (43/61). Fewer than half of all patients (25/61) received patient education about Osteoarthritis;. About a third (10/34) received advice about non-prescription drugs and one in four patients received drug prescription (16/61) when consulting a physician (Table 2). More patients in the physician-frst group received drug prescriptions than the physiotherapist group (physiotherapist group n=4, physician group n=12). Non-steroid anti-infammatory drugs (Naproxen, Diclofenac or Ibuprofen) were most frequently prescribed. A few (4/61) patients were treated with corticoid injections. Tree to 6 % self-reported a sick leave period, and one patient (1/61) required medical certifcate for a longer sick leave period, with a total of 26days of work absence (Table 2). Te costs for the two groups using the societal perspective were 633 Euro (currency);/patient (Standard deviation; 620) and 996 Euro (currency);/patient (Standard deviation; 1276) for physiotherapist and physician group respectively. Total average costs from a health care perspective for the care model with physiotherapist as primary assessor were 515 Euro (currency);/patient (Standard deviation; 541) and 748 Euro (currency);/patient (Standard deviation; 885) with physician as primary assessor. Te total cost diferences were not statistically signifcant. However, there were signifcantly higher costs in the physician group compared with the physiotherapist group regarding physician visits, writing letters and radiography, and signifcantly higher telephone costs in the physiotherapist group compared with the physician group (Table 4). Te mean diference in costs using the societal perspective was −364 Euro (currency);/patient (Confidence interval;: −870 to143) in favour of the physiotherapist-frst group and−233 Euro (currency);/patient (Confidence interval;: −605 to 139) using the health care perspective (Table 5). Patients assessed by a physiotherapist or a physician gained 0.75 quality assurance;LYs respectively 0.74 quality assurance;LYs 1 year after the initial assessment (Multiple Imputation; dataset) and the diferences were not signifcant (p=0.69) (Table 6). When adjusted for baseline diferences in EuroQuartiles;uality of life; five dimension;-3L index, the mean diference in quality assurance;LYs were−0.015 (Confidence interval;: −0.093 to 0.063) if the patients were assessed by a physiotherapist frst (Table 5). Patients gained slightly less quality assurance;LYs but at a lower cost 1 year after the initial contact when assessed by physiotherapist frst compared to being assessed by a physician frst. Mean Incremental costeffectiveness ratio; of physiotherapist vs physician frst from a societal perspective was 24,266 Euro (currency);/lost quality assurance;LY and from a health care perspective was saving 15,533 Euro (currency);/lost quality assurance;LY (Multiple Imputation;-results) (Table 5) (results of analyses using Complete case; and Last observation carried forward; are available in Additional fle 1). Te uncertainty of Incremental costeffectiveness ratio; was analysed with 200 bootstrapped replicates (Figs. 3 and 4). Te results from a societal perspective (Fig. 3), where the likelihood that physiotherapist-frst leads to lower quality assurance;LYs at lower costs is 42%, to higher quality assurance;LYs at lower costs is 38% and to lower quality assurance;LYs at higher costs is 18%. Te point estimate of Incremental costeffectiveness ratio; from a health care perspective and most replicates (37%) are in the lower left quadrant, which represents the likelihood of patients assessed frst by a physiotherapist gaining fewer quality assurance;LYs but at a lower cost than patients frst assessed by a physician. However, the likelihood of higher quality assurance;LYs at lower costs is almost as high (35%), while the likelihood of lower quality assurance;LYs at higher costs is somewhat lower (23%) (Fig. 4). At the “informal” low threshold value rule from the National Board of Health and Welfare, of ~9800 Euro (currency); per quality assurance;LY (100,000 Standard error;K/quality assurance;LY) , the likelihood that the intervention with physiotherapy as primary assessor is cost-efective is approximately 40% (Figs. 5 and 6). Our goal was to determine the cost-efectiveness 1 year after assessment for patients with KOsteoarthritis; comparing physiotherapists and physicians as primary assessors in primary care. Our fndings suggest that physiotherapist-led care model might reduce health care costs and lead to marginally less quality assurance;LYs, but Confidence interval;s were wide and overlapped no diference at all. Tere were signifcantly higher costs for physician visits and radiography in the physician group (p<0.001 and p=0.01). According to guidelines, radiography is not required to diagnose patients with typical presentation of Osteoarthritis; . However, about one third of the patients assessed by a physician frst were referred to radiography. Utilisation of radiography has increased over the past 15years in Sweden  and the costs are 742,000 Euro (currency);/year for patients with Osteoarthritis; registered in the national quality registry BOsteoarthritis; . Data from the BOsteoarthritis; registry show that in 2019, nearly 70% of the patients were referred to radiological examination. Only 5% of all patients in the BOsteoarthritis; registry were directly triaged to a physiotherapist . Applying the results from this study to a national setting, like the registry data, would reduce the referral rate to radiography to 9%, if patients were initially assessed by physiotherapists. Consequently, the costs for radiography would decrease by 87%, to 98,200 Euro (currency);/year. Except cost savings, reducing radiography examinations could minimise the ecological footprint with decreased carbon dioxide emissions . It is likely (72–80%) that management of KOsteoarthritis; after frst assessment by physiotherapist is less costly and differs less than ±0.1 in quality assurance;LY compared to being assessed by physician frst (Figs. 3 and 4), although the Costefectiveness analysis;results should be interpreted with caution (Table 5). Te results showing improved HrQuartiles;uality of life; and fewer physician visits at a lower cost compared with traditional physician-led care, are consistent with results from Bornhöft et al. who evaluated the health efects on triaging patients with musculoskeletal disorders to physiotherapists in Swedish primary care . However, Bornhöft et al. found that triaging to physiotherapists in primary care has a 85–93% likelihood to be cost-efective at a threshold value of 20,000 Euro (currency);  compared with this study that have a likelihood of approximately 40%. Te Costefectiveness analysis;denylyl cyclase; slopes downwards, which implies that the most likely outcome is that the intervention with physiotherapists as primary assessor results in both lower cost and lower quality assurance;LYs. Tis study has several limitations. Te sample size calculation was based on the outcomes in the clinical trial. Te sample size of 100 patients was not reached because of low patient fow, which may increase the risk of type II error in this study. Tis study is based on a pragmatic trial, which may explain the low patient fow. During the study there were organizational changes for both health care centres and rehabilitation centres. Even though pragmatic trials are challenging as they compete with the clinics’ interests, the study design is a strength of this study where this model of care can be easily implemented since the intervention has been tested in a real clinical setting . Pragmatic trials are also thought to provide important information on the optimal delivery of early physiotherapy . Health care visits and costs were not imputed because we cannot be sure of the cause of the missing values, i.e. did the patient consult elsewhere or not at all. Te imputed datasets for missing EuroQuartiles;uality of life; five dimension;-3L index values resulted in higher total quality assurance;LYs and the small mean diferences shifted from favouring the physician group to the physiotherapist group (Table 6). Te small diferences remained small, and neither were there any signifcant diferences with the imputed datasets. Despite diferent Multiple Imputation; techniques and using Spropensity scores;S in the main analyses and STATA in the sensitivity analyses, the Multiple Imputation;-results did not difer. A lifetime horizon would be more desirable in economic evaluations of KOsteoarthritis;. However, that is a costly and demanding setting, and shorter horizons have been accepted in comparative studies . Te current prices for diferent health care visits are based on regional price lists from the years when the study was conducted, with mean costs, including overhead costs, social fees and patient fees, and time frames based on clinical professionals’ estimations. Mean cost levels used in the Costefectiveness analysis; were 156 Euro (currency);/physician visit and 63 Euro (currency);/physiotherapist visit, and if we were to use mean salaries and estimated time spent per visit the prices would be 29 Euro (currency); respectively 25 Euro (currency); instead. Te mean diference in total costs between the groups would probably be smaller or even be more costly for the physiotherapist group using mean salaries and time, since physiotherapy comprises longer treatment periods with more visits. Another aspect not included in this Costefectiveness analysis; is the escalating cost for renting physicians and nurses to cover the high demand in Swedish primary care. Te cost for renting a physician is estimated to be 2–3 times higher than the cost for own personnel . In Sweden, a medical certifcate issued by a physician is required after the frst week of work absence. Te total productivity loss in this study would be more precise if we also collected data about sick leave periods shorter than 1 week. Te small diferences in quality assurance;LY may be a result of the EuroQuartiles;uality of life; five dimension;-3L instrument and its risk for ceiling efect and ability to detect change. Te EuroQuartiles;uality of life; five dimension; with fve levels (EuroQuartiles;uality of life; five dimension;-5L) reduces the ceiling efect (i.e. reporting no problems in all dimensions) to 30% from 46% with the EuroQuartiles;uality of life; five dimension;-3L . Te 5L has better ability to discriminate between milder health problems and identify small changes in health status . Moving from 3L to 5L could possibly lower the incremental quality assurance;LY gain . Baseline values of EuroQuartiles;uality of life; five dimension;-3L index in the physiotherapist group (0.73) difer from other studies where patients with KOsteoarthritis; receiving core treatments had a mean index of 0.60. Te 12-month follow-up index value from those studies (mean 0.64) were more similar to the Complete case; values (means 0.65–0.66) than the imputed values (Last observation carried forward; and Multiple Imputation;: 0.73–0.75) . In addition to earlier mentioned factors afecting the EuroQuartiles;uality of life; five dimension;-3L index, other aspects may be the inclusion of patients with only mild to moderate symptomatic KOsteoarthritis; and the smaller sample size than required in this study. In line with recommended guidelines, the referral rate was high to physiotherapists in the physician-led pathway, where most patients in the study received recommended treatment of exercise and education. Exercise therapy is an efective treatment to improve health in patients with KOsteoarthritis; . Like earlier fndings with direct access to a physiotherapist for musculoskeletal disorders, this study resulted in HrQuartiles;uality of life; improvement and efects comparable to physician-led care . To the best of our knowledge, this study is the frst of its kind to evaluate the economic impact of diferent primary assessors for patients with KOsteoarthritis;. Tis economic evaluation provides support for the increasing use of physiotherapists frst for patients with KOsteoarthritis;. Te knowledge of patients’ perceptions of diferent primary assessors can be useful when implementing this model of care, and this needs to be explored in future qualitative studies. Physiotherapist as primary assessor could contribute to solving the issue of the estimated increase in KOsteoarthritis; physician consultations and costs. In 2019, 44 countries had direct access to physiotherapy . Besides addressing the possibility of direct access to physiotherapy, decision makers must also provide enough physiotherapists in primary care to implement a potential model of care with task-shifting responsibilities. Tese fndings suggest that physiotherapist-led care model might reduce health care costs and lead to marginally less quality assurance;LYs, but Confidence interval;s were wide and overlapped no diference at all. Health consequences depending on the profession of the frst assessor for KOsteoarthritis; seem to be comparable for physiotherapists and physicians, which has been shown in the clinical trial which this study is based on . However, larger clinical trials and qualitative studies to evaluate patients’ perception of this model of care are needed.