Being one of the commonest among joint diseases, knee osteoarthritis (KOsteoarthritis;) is generally frst noticed via a series of clinical manifestations (i.e. pain, tenderness, motion limitation, bone swelling, joint deformity, instability, proprioception loss, etc.) rather than with imaging manners, which most occur before symptoms do . De facto, all the formers do not always occur for subjects in early phases, and once were the symptoms hence atypical, the latter, generally referring to plain flming by computed radiography (Computed radiography;) and magnetic resonance imaging (Magnetic resonance imaging;), could be utilised to further confrm arthritis situations . Te imaging techniques provide us opportunities to recognise early pathological changes of the afected joints. Computed radiography; flms display osteophytes, narrowed joint spaces and altered subchondral bone mineral density (Bone mineral density;) . As regards Magnetic resonance imaging;, comparing with Computed radiography;, could better recognise more subtle pathological changes such as bone oedema, cartilage lesion and ligament injury, which are important in evaluation and classifcation of KOsteoarthritis; . Radiomics is a burgeoning batch of strategies adopting machine learning (Machine learning;) stufs and high-fux automated extractions and analyses of interested quantitative data from clinical imaging outcomes , and Magnetic resonance imaging; radiomics is particularly more accounted of for its delicate resolution in aquiferous tissues . However, has it been preliminarily applied in oncology in terms of diagnosis, staging and evaluation , the applications of radiomics in KOsteoarthritis; have just gotten of the ground. Tere have been a respectable number of Computed radiography; radiomics studies on KOsteoarthritis; or related issues, some of which devoted to detection and classifcation of KOsteoarthritis; itself , while others provided with patterns for discovery or evaluation of related pathological changes , exempli gratia, subchondral bone changes and cartilage loss. On the other hand, studies concerning Magnetic resonance imaging; radiomics analyses on KOsteoarthritis;, which most investigated features extracted from articular cartilage , subchondral bone  or infrapatellar fat  et al. for KOsteoarthritis; identifcation, onset detection or progression evaluation, have been growing conspicuous mostly due to advantages of Magnetic resonance imaging; over Computed radiography;. Nevertheless, present studies gave more priority to casting in diferent ways on of-the-peg scoring systems determining severity or progression stages of the KOsteoarthritis;  or to simply evaluating pathological changes shown in Magnetic resonance imaging; images , which appeared not quite immediate or completed for diagnosis of the disease of KOsteoarthritis; itself. Consequently, the purpose of our study was to validate efcacy of Magnetic resonance imaging; radiomics strategies in KOsteoarthritis; evaluation, to confrm features of which combination(s) of compartments of the knee show better performance and to explore the Machine learning; models which were potentially available for practical utilities, that is, direct inference of KOsteoarthritis; diagnoses.Tis retrospective study consecutively enrolled 148 patients with single knee Magnetic resonance imaging; images acquired during the month of September, 2021. Te subjects were divided into the KOsteoarthritis; and non-KOsteoarthritis; groups in line with the KOsteoarthritis; diagnostic codes in Guideline (of China) for diagnosis and management of osteoarthritis (2018 edition) (Table 1) . Tere were 78 left knees and 70 right included in total; the KOsteoarthritis; group included 72 cases (34 males, 38 females; 39 left, 33 right; mean age, 52.32±13.95 years; range, 23–83 years). Te non-KOsteoarthritis; group included 76 case (61 males, 15 females; 39 left, 37 right; mean age, 33.16±11.24 years; range, 20–81 years). Te data of body mass index (Body mass index;, 24.30±1.98 kg/m2 , derived from body weight  and height ), were also collected, yet those of only 53 subjects out of 148 (35.8%) were available, for these statistics are not routinely acquired at clinic of our centre. All MR images were obtained with 1.5 T MR scanners (EchoStar 16-channel head coil, Alltech Medical Systems, Chengdu, China; Signa Highspeed 8-channel head coil, GE Healthcare, Milwaukee, USA). Te MR protocol included fast spin-echo (FSE) T1-weighted images (T1WI) plus FSE T2-weighted images (T2WI) in the axial, coronal and sagittal planes. A fow chart depicting image preparation, feature extraction, feature selection and model construction is presented in Fig. 1. To obtain the volume of interest (Volume of interest;) for further analysis, we uploaded all data to Radcloud platform (Huiying Medical Technology Co., Ltd). Te Volume of interest;s of KOsteoarthritis; were delineated manually by a radiologist with 10 years of experience in knee imaging (radiologist 1). Te delineated Volume of interest;s were from cartilage of three regions, namely the medial and lateral compartments of tibiofemoral joints and patellofemoral joints, respectively. Te medial and lateral Volume of interest;s corresponded to sagittal and coronal views of the tibiofemoral surfaces, and the Volume of interest;s of the patella to the sagittal and transverse positions of the patellofemoral surfaces. Regions of interest (Regions of interest;s) were thus delineated manually in the Magnetic resonance imaging; for 148 patients, and Volume of interest;s were constructed by piling the slices of the corresponding Regions of interest;s in sequence. Tirty patients (with all Volume of interest;s delineated by radiologist 1) were then randomly selected from all subjects, and all Volume of interest;s were again delineated by a senior radiologist with 15 years of experience in imaging the knee joint (radiologist 2) for these patients. Te interclass correlation coefcient (Interclass correlation coefcient;) among 1049 features of each sequence was calculated for the latter 30 patients. Interclass correlation coefcient; greater than 0.80 was considered as in good agreement, and radiomic features with Interclass correlation coefcient; below 0.8, which are generally considered to be unreproducible among radiologists, were deleted . Eventually, the work of radiologist 1 was used for further analysis. Te two radiologists were blinded to the information of each subject. An example of the manual segmentation is shown in Fig. 2. For MR image data, 1049 radiomic features were extracted from MR image data using a tool (Features Calculation) from the Radcloud platform (https://mics. huiyihuiying.com/#/subject). All the extracted radiomic features came from four categories: frst-order statistical features, shape features, texture features and higherorder statistical features. First-order statistics described the intensity information of Regions of interest;s in the MR images such as maximum, median, mean, standard deviation, variance and range. Shape features refected the shape and size of the region, such as volume, compactness, maximal diameter and surface area. Texture features could quantify regional heterogeneity diferences. Higher-order statistical features consisting of the texture and intensity features produced by fltering transformation and wavelet transformation of the original MR Images: exponential, square, square root, logarithm and wavelet. Features are compliance with defnitions as defned by the imaging biomarker standardisation initiative (Imaging biomarker standardisation initiative;) . All datasets were used to assign 80% of datasets to the training cohort and 20% of datasets to the validation cohort. Optimal features were selected from the training cohort. Prior to the steps of feature selection, all radiomic features were standardised using the StandardScaler function (in Python) by removing the mean and dividing by its standard deviation, and each set of feature value was converted to a mean of 0 with a variance of 1. Although radiomic features with Interclass correlation coefcient; lower than 0.80 were removed, there still remained a great quantity of features. To improve the accuracy of model prediction and reduce the infuence of features redundancy, it is necessary to remove redundant features and select the optimal features. Te variance threshold method (variance threshold=0.8) and Select-K-Best method were adopted. Te Select-K-Best method used P<0.05 to determine optimal features related to the KOsteoarthritis;. Te least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator;) regression method was used to decrease the degree of redundancy and irrelevance. Te optimal α, which is the coefcient of regularisation in the Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator; method, was selected using inner tenfold cross-validation in the training cohort with the maximum iteration of 5000 via minimum average mean square error (MSE). Subsequently, the radiomics parameters with nonzero coefcients in the Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator; algorithm generated by the whole training cohort with the optimal α were selected. Te selected features were taken as the inputs for model construction to diferentiate KOsteoarthritis; from all patients. Images were classifed as KOsteoarthritis; or non-KOsteoarthritis; using Machine learning; methods in combination with the selected features listed above. Models were constructed with Machine learning; algorithms including logistic regression (Logistic regression;), K-nearest neighbour (K-nearest neighbour;) and support vector machine (Support vector machine;) in the training cohort. In the process of model building, every classifer was tuned and the hyperparameters were optimised to maximise the diagnostic performance. In Support vector machine; algorithm, the hyperparameters of C (including 0.1, 0.8, 0.5, 1, 3, 5) and kernel (‘rbf’, ‘linear’, ‘sigmoid’) were included; in K-nearest neighbour; algorithm, they were n_neighbours (the range is from 2 to 10) and algorithm (‘auto’, ‘ball_tree’, ‘kd_tree’); and in Logistic regression; algorithm, the included hyperparameters were penalty (‘l1’, ‘l2’) and C (including 0.1, 0.5, 0.8, 1, 3, 5). Te classifcation results were evaluated with a receiver operating characteristic (Receiver operating characteristic;) curve with the associated area under the Receiver operating characteristic; curve (Area under curve;), accuracy, sensitivity and specifcity. In a single algorithm, 11 models were, respectively, constructed for comparative analysis. Tree models of medial tibiofemoral Volume of interest;s were constructed, respectively, including sagittal model (M-S model), coronal model (M-C model) and combined model of the sagittal-coronal (M-S-C model). Similarly, three models of lateral tibiofemoral Volume of interest;s were constructed, respectively, as sagittal model (L-S model), coronal model (L-C model) and combined model of the sagittal-coronal (L-S-C model). In patellar Volume of interest;s, sagittal model (P-S model), transverse model (P–T model) and combined model of the sagittal-transverse (P-S-T model) were constructed. In addition, we combined all the features to build a comprehensive model (Final model, Final-M). After training, estimations of the generalisation performance of each model were validated in the validation cohort. Besides, clinical data of age, gender and Body mass index; were taken into the construction of an additional model for clinical statistics analyses (Clnc model) rather than being mixed into the former 10 models mainly All statistical analyses were performed using R software version 3.3.0. Normalisation of features, selection of features and model construction were undertaken using Python 3.7.0, Scikit-learn package 0.19.2 and Pyradiomics package 2.2.0. Other statistical analyses were performed using R software version 3.3.0. Receiver operating characteristic; curve analysis was used to evaluate the diagnostic performances of Machine learning; classifers , and four indicators including P (precision=true positives/(true positives+false positives)), R (recall=true positives/(true positives+false negatives)), f1-score (f1-score=P*R*2/ (P+R)), support (total number in test set) to evaluate the performance of classifer in this study. Te statistical analysis was performed in Radcloud platform (https:// mics.huiyihuiying.com/). For the M-S model, 518 features were frst screened from 2098 features using the Interclass correlation coefcient; test. Ten, the 518 features were screened by the variance threshold algorithm (variance threshold=0.8), Select-K-Best algorithm and Lasso algorithm, respectively. Finally, 16 optimal features were screened. By repeating the above steps, the M-C, M-S-C, L-S, L-C, L-S-C, P-S, P–T, P-S-T and Final model retained 13, 16, 21,19, 35, 28, 15, 43 and 42 features as the optimal feature set, respectively (Table 2). In the four combined models (M-S-C, L-S-C, P-S-T and Final-M), the process of Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator; algorithms is shown in Additional fle 1: Fig. 1. Te results of K-nearest neighbour; algorithm, Logistic regression; algorithm and Support vector machine; algorithm are shown in Table 3. In general, all the models achieved satisfying performance, especially in the combined model (Final model), where accuracy and Area under curve; of Logistic regression; classifer were 0.968, 0.983 (0.957–1.000, 95% Confidence interval;) in the validation cohort, compared to 0.940 and 0.984 (0.969–0.995, 95% Confidence interval;) in the training cohort, respectively. Among the four combined models (M-S-C, L-S-C, P-S-T and Final-M), the Logistic regression; algorithm showed better performance in KOsteoarthritis; diagnosis. In validation sets of each model, the Area under curve; of Logistic regression; algorithm ranged from 0.875 to 0.983, and the accuracy ranged from 0.774 to 0.968. Te Receiver operating characteristic; curves of the four models are shown in Fig. 3, Figs. 4 and 5. However, the performance of Clnc model was apparently inferior to radiomics-based models. Te Support vector machine; algorithm showed relatively more optimal performance in Clnc model, with the Area under curve; of 0.747 in the training cohort and 0.715 in the validation cohort, respectively. Te Receiver operating characteristic; curves of the Clnc model are shown in Fig. 6. Our models achieved direct inferences from cartilage lesions to KOsteoarthritis; diagnosis by enumerating and analysing fltered features extracted from Magnetic resonance imaging; images of cartilage with the aid of various types of algorithms, before which the Volume of interest;s were manually, rather than automatedly, delineated by salted radiologists. Tere exist studies on automated Regions of interest;/Volume of interest; selection and evaluation manners of Magnetic resonance imaging; images in KOsteoarthritis; patients by virtue of Machine learning;. Nunes et al.  completed their works on automated detection and staging of cartilage lesions and bone marrow oedema, yet only included diagnosed KOsteoarthritis; subjects. Pedoia et al.  developed their classifcation system merely on meniscal lesion. Terefore, what we have excavated in our study is hitherto relatively rare. Radiomics studies focusing on KOsteoarthritis; were less performed on Magnetic resonance imaging; images comparing with Computed radiography;. A respectable bunch of investigations based on Computed radiography; image data were performed to extract meaningful features or give immediate Kellgren–Lawrence classifcation data, employing diferent algorithms in various stages , and eforts for portable devices were also set on track . In clinical practice, Computed radiography; is the much more used methods than Magnetic resonance imaging; to screen KOsteoarthritis; because of its convenience, economy and radiologic safety (comparing with CT of course), while Magnetic resonance imaging; scanning is used in relatively rare situations to explore details of the joints and exhibit cartilage, which could hardly be shown by the former . However, this would surely afect the continuum of the included subjects in our study, for few subjects from clinics accept Magnetic resonance imaging; scans. Furthermore, despite the advantages of Magnetic resonance imaging; over Computed radiography; on early stage detection of pathological changes , the sensitivity in KOsteoarthritis; diagnosis of 61%  is still low, requiring standard algorithms to further solidify diagnostic efectiveness. In this regard, our study had a meaningful attempt. To our limited knowledge, our models were innovative to some extent, in which KOsteoarthritis; diagnoses were developed without adopting any intact ready-made scoring system. Tere exist several semi-quantitative scoring systems in KOsteoarthritis;, such as Whole-Organ Magnetic resonance imaging; Score (WOdds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles;epetition maximum.S)  or Magnetic resonance imaging; osteoarthritis knee score (MOsteoarthritis;KS) , utilising artifcially accessible Magnetic resonance imaging; features signs of the knee. Tese systems were developed to manage higher efectiveness on diagnosis, and had been used as core idea in some of the radiomics studies . Te crux of the matter is that any of the scoring systems were designed merely for precise diagnosis of KOsteoarthritis; by quantifying and weighing data that could be conveniently manually acquired. Inasmuch as Machine learning; models could recognise necessary features and perform reliable analysis so that to best achieve the discrimination of the disease and even approach gold standard, we might not require a scoring system by rote anymore. Additionally, it was concluded in our study that the more planes and compartments were picked among various permutation and combination for combined analyses, the better performances the models could achieve. Te knee joints were divided into three compartments in our study, that is, lateral and medial tibiofemoral compartments as well as the patellofemoral space. An Magnetic resonance imaging; radiomics study working on subchondral trabeculae developed their KOsteoarthritis; severity assessment from four individual Regions of interest;s out of two tibiofemoral compartments of knee joints . Besides diagnosis deduction issues, it is pellucid that a sole plane/Regions of interest; out of a 3-dimentional system is apt to omit necessary details, and the exact compartment(s) where the pathological changes of cartilage occur varies from patients and knees . Terefore, full-scale data management would be necessary for future debugging and application of KOsteoarthritis; radiomics diagnosis models, in the interest of both comprehensiveness of evaluation and deep going analyses of subjects with each kind of afected compartments. Nevertheless, as any Machine learning; derived models, ours might have several ‘birth defects’ . For instance, a large dataset would beneft model training . Te feature recognition model derived by Nunes et al.  brought into 1435 knees; the automated staging device developed by Suresha et al.  used 7549 Computed radiography; images for Machine learning; progressions, and a similar model by Tiulpin et al.  subsumed 5960 knees. Our subject pool of 148 knees in our study was an obvious shortcoming for an Machine learning; model. Concurrently, derivation processes of the Machine learning;-based models require external validations . Internal validations are essential for Machine learning; model development , yet could not replace external validations; the latter demanding open-source software or data resources and accordingly remaining rare, would be required to help avoid selection bias . Moreover, the ‘black box’ nature of Machine learning; models conceals inner logics of inference, resulting in poor understanding of the generation of any judgements . In terms of radiomics strategies applied, tenfold cross-validation was used in our analyses to screen the optimal features of the radiomics features. Yet in the subsequent model construction, due to the excessive training time and calculation consumption caused by the large count of established models (which was up to 33), randomisation (in grouping), which had been utilised by former studies , was consequently also adopted for model construction instead of cross-validation. Additionally, as a set of models aiming at serving rapid, automatic and precise clinical diagnosis of KOsteoarthritis;, fundamental statistics of patients, which were age, gender, Body mass index;, etc., which ought to be included in case of good performance , were reluctantly discarded in general Magnetic resonance imaging; radiomics analyses due to critical missing caused by the yet-to-be-standardised clinic workfow. Such loss may result in yielding in further optimisation of the radiomics models. Terefore, we are planning in future studies for data collection on a larger and all-round scale, and utility of cross-validation during grouping courses as well. Besides the mentioned ones, numbers of limitations in our study still exist. First, such is in nature a crosssectional study, which included no prospective contents, nor any prognosis datum. Second, because the enrolled images were directly extracted from the Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) system by scanning date, the consecutiveness of subjects would be harmed and thus increased the risk of bias. Tird, we simply brought features of joint cartilage condition into diagnosis derivation process, which may lead to deviation in KOsteoarthritis; recognition due to the lack of overall estimation of joint condition. Machine learning; models for KOsteoarthritis; diagnosis based on Magnetic resonance imaging; radiomics analysis were formed via various programs and algorithms, before which the Regions of interest;s-Volume of interest;s were manually delineated. Te model reached sound efects, and when combining all available planes of all three compartments of the knee joints (Final-M) and utilising the Logistic regression; algorithm, Area under curve;, accuracy, sensitivity and specifcity were, respectively, achieved to be 0.984 (0.969–0.995, 95% Confidence interval;), 0.940, 0.877 and 1.000 in the training cohort, and 0.983 (0.957–1.000, 95% Confidence interval;), 0.968, 1.000 and 0.938 in the validation cohort, which came up to be quite satisfying, and the best outcome among training and validation consequences, respectively. Abbreviations Machine learning;: Machine learning; Magnetic resonance imaging;: Magnetic resonance imaging; KOsteoarthritis;: Knee osteoarthritis; Body mass index;: Body mass index; Interclass correlation coefcient; : Intraclass correlation coefcient; Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator;: Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator; Logistic regression; : Logistic regression; K-nearest neighbour;: K-nearest neighbour; Support vector machine;: Support vector machine; Receiver operating characteristic;: Receiver operating characteristic; Area under curve;: Area under curve; Confidence interval; : Confdence interval; Computed radiography;: Computed radiography; Bone mineral density;: Bone mineral density; Volume of interest; : Volume of interest; Regions of interest;: Regions of interest; Interclass correlation coefcient;: Interclass correlation coefcient; Imaging biomarker standardisation initiative;: Imaging biomarker standardisation initiative; Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator;: Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator; Logistic regression; : Logistic regression; K-nearest neighbour;: K-nearest neighbour; Support vector machine;: Support vector machine; WOdds ratio; Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve;LA: University of California, Los Angeles;epetition maximum.S: Whole-organ Magnetic resonance imaging; score;