Osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) is an inflammatory disease of the synovial joints . It is the most frequent form of arthritis and a major contributor to pain and disability in older people . Knee Osteoarthritis; (KOsteoarthritis;) is common , and with an increasingly aging population, >250 million people worldwide have KOsteoarthritis; . The pain and financial burden are the main effects of KOsteoarthritis; on both the individual and society . Early prevention and timely diagnosis are important aspects of disease management, but the detailed etiology, pathophysiology and metabolic mechanisms are not yet fully understood . The diagnosis of KOsteoarthritis; currently relies on imaging techniques, and X-ray analysis is still the most widely used examination . However, when there are subtle pathological changes within the joint, they cannot be identified on by X-ray . Therefore, new methods for evaluation of KOsteoarthritis; are being sought. Metabolomics is a new discipline developed after genomics, transcriptomics and proteomics .Metabolomics can analyze the small molecules of endogenous metabolites in organisms and shed light on biological change .Widely targeted metabolomics is one of the metabolomics technologies, which combines the advantages of targeted and non-targeted metabolomics, and is more suitable for the detection of low to medium abundance metabolites .Recent research has focused on the biomarkers and pathophysiology of Osteoarthritis; using metabolomics . Metabolomics studies consist of three main steps: sample preparation, metabolome assay, and data analysis, through which small molecule metabolites in tissues can be identified . The application of metabolomics to the study of KOsteoarthritis; has identified several biomarkers associated with KOsteoarthritis; . Researchers have also begun to investigate the correlation between biomarkers and the severity of KOsteoarthritis; . Although different metabolites were obtained in these studies due to different sample sources, these findings have led to a better understanding of the pathogenesis of KOsteoarthritis;. In metabolomics studies of KOsteoarthritis;, peripheral blood samples and synovial fluid are the two most commonly used sources. Collection of synovial fluid is an invasive procedure and involves some risk . Blood samples have ease of access and detection of overall metabolic characteristics, making them the first choice for most studies . Currently,The pathogenesis of knee osteoarthritis remains incompletely understood and the biomarkers associated with severe knee osteoarthritis remain unclear.Therefore, this study explored the metabolite differences between KOsteoarthritis; patients and healthy individuals in Southern China using widely targeted metabolomics, and aimed to identify biomarkers that could differentiate KOsteoarthritis; severity The inclusion criteria for patients were: diagnosis of primary osteoarthritis of the knee, age between 50 and 82 years, and no use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or hormonal drugs in the last week. Finally,thirtytwo KOsteoarthritis; patients were recruited from the Orthopedic Department of Guangdong Provincial Hospital of Chinese Medicine between Jan 2019 and Aug 2019. According to Kellgren–Lawrence (Kellgren–Lawrence;) grading system , KOsteoarthritis; was further divided into mild (n=13, Kellgren–Lawrence; grade 1 and 2) and severe (n=19,Kellgren–Lawrence; grade 3 and 4) disease. The diagnostic criteria for KOsteoarthritis; were based on the American College of Rheumatology Clinical symptomatic and radiographic criteria . Patients with rheumatoid arthritis or secondary Osteoarthritis;, autoimmune disease, malignancy, systemic inflammatory or infectious disease and severe liver or kidney disease were excluded. During the same time period, 10 healthy individuals were recruited from the clinical department of GuangdongProvincial Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine who were matched for age and gender to the KOsteoarthritis; group. Healthy participants were excluded if they had Osteoarthritis;-related symptoms and imaging changes, autoimmune disease, malignancy, rheumatoid arthritis, advanced liver and kidney disease, and infectious disease within the past 3 months. None of the enrolled healthy volunteers had a history of musculoskeletal disease or knee injury.Demographic information such as gender, age and body mass index (body mass index;) was recorded for both groups.There were five participants in the patient group and two in the control group with a body mass index; greater than 30. There were no participants with a body mass index; of less than 18.5 in either group. Written informed consent was obtained from all participants prior to the start of the study. The study was conducted in accordance with the ethical standards of the 1964 Declaration of Helsinki and was approved by the Ethics Committee of Guangdong Provincial Hospital of Chinese Medicine(approval number: Z2017-110). All patients were fasted for at least 8 h before collecting blood samples. Blood samples were centrifuged for 15 min (1500 g) and serum was extracted and stored at −80 °C until analysis was performed. The samples were removed from the freezer and thawed on ice until the samples were completely free of ice. After thawing, the samples were vortexed for 10 s, and 50-µL samples were removed and added to an empty centrifuge tube with 300 µL of internal standard extract. The mixture was vortexed and mixed, and centrifuged at 12,000 g for 10 min at 4 °C. We collected 200 µL of the supernatant in a new tube and centrifuged again at 12,000 g for 3 min at 4 °C. After centrifugation, 150 µL of the extracted supernatant was added to the liner tube of the injection vial and left for analysis. Samples were analyzed using an ExionLC AD ultraperformance liquid chromatography (ultra-performance liquid chromatography;) system combined with a Quartiles;TRheumatoid arthritis;P® tandem mass spectrometry (mass spectrometry;) system (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, United States.A). Sample extract (2 µL) was injected onto a Waters Acquity ultra-performance liquid chromatography; Hospital for Special Surgery score; T3 C18 (1.8 μm, 2.1 and 100 mm) column. The column temperature was set at 40 °C and the flow rate was 0.4 mL/min. The mobile phase consisted of ultrapure water (0.1% formic acid) in phase A and acetonitrile (0.1% formic acid) in phase B. The elution gradients were specified as follows: 0 min 95:5 V/V, 10.0 min 10:90 V/V, 11.0 min 10:90 V/V, 11.1 min 95:5 V and 14.0 min 95:5 V/V. Mass measurements were carried out in positive and negative ion electrospray mode. Triple quadrupole mass spectrometry; was used. The software Analyst 1.6.3 (Sciex) was used to process the mass spectrometry; data. The electrospray ion source parameters were as follows: source temperature 500 °C, mass spectrometry; voltage set to 5500 V (positive) and −4500 V (negative); ion source gas I, gas II and curtain gas set to 55, 60 and 25 psi respectively; collision gas set to high. A quality control sample was inserted in every 10 samples during the analysis to monitor reproducibility. Spropensity scores;S 24.0 statistical software package was used to analyze the data. For the demographic and laboratory data of both groups, quantitative information was described as mean±standard deviation. For quantitative information, independent-samples Student’s t test was chosen for the assessment between the two groups. Correlations between categorical variables were assessed using the χ2 test or Fisher’s exact test. The results were considered statistically significant at P≤0.05. The data analysis and statistical methods for metabolites were as follows. The control and patient groups were analyzed using the orthogonal partial least squarediscriminate analysis (OPLeast squares;-DA). Variable importance in projection (Variable importance in projection;) combined with the fold change was used to screen for differential metabolites. Metabolites with fold change≥2 and fold change≤0.5 were selected in the first step, and metabolites with Variable importance in projection;≥1 were selected if there was biological duplication in the sample grouping on the basis of the above. The same method was used to analyze the mild and severe KOsteoarthritis; groups to obtain the differential metabolites. Receiver operating characteristic (Receiver operating characteristic;) curve analysis was performed to examine the predictive ability of biomarkers to distinguish between patients with mild and severe KOsteoarthritis; by calculating the area under the curve (area under the curve;). The obtained differential metabolites were analyzed using the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes;) pathway for enrichment. There were 32 KOsteoarthritis; patients, including 7 men and 25 women with a mean age of 66±5.51 years, and 10 healthy individuals, including 2 men and 8 women, aged 68.9±4.28 years. There were no significant differences between KOsteoarthritis; patients and healthy controls in terms of age, sex and body mass index; (P>0.05 for all parameters). The demographic characteristics of the two groups are shown in Table 1. Further statistical analysis of the demographic characteristics (age, gender and body mass index;) of patients in the mild versus severe KOsteoarthritis; groups was performed (Table 2). None of the parameters were significantly different (P>0.05). Over 600 metabolites were identified from serum samples through a widely targeted metabolomics approach. We used OPLeast squares;-DA to identify differences between the control and patient groups. The OPLeast squares;-DA score plot showed that the two groups have a tendency to cluster within groups and separate between groups (Fig. 1). Unlike healthy controls, the patient group had 61 differentially expressed metabolites (45 upregulated and 16 downregulated) in the serum (Fig. 2). Differential metabolites that were upregulated included palmitoleic acid (C16:1), carnitine C20:2, hypoxanthine, xanthosine, and N-α-acetyl-L-asparagine, which were positively correlated with KOsteoarthritis;. The same method was chosen to analyze mild and severe KOsteoarthritis; to obtain OPLeast squares;-DA score plots and differential metabolites. There was a clear trend of separation between the mild and severe KOsteoarthritis; groups (Fig. 3). Patients with severe KOsteoarthritis; had 12 differentially expressed metabolites in the serum (Fig. 4). Two metabolites were positively correlated with KOsteoarthritis; severity, xanthosine and N-α-acetyl-L-asparagine. Ten metabolites were negatively correlated with KOsteoarthritis; severity, including hexanoyl glycine, N-phenylacetylglycine, and 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde. Therefore, xanthosine and N-αacetyl-L-asparagine may be key metabolites to identify the severity of KOsteoarthritis;. We assessed the feasibility of using xanthosine and N-α-acetyl-L-asparagine as potential predictors to differentiate the severity of KOsteoarthritis; patients by Receiver operating characteristic; curve analysis. Receiver operating characteristic; curve analysis showed that N-α-acetyl-L-asparagine (area under the curve;: 0.773) was a good predictor of late KOsteoarthritis; (Kellgren–Lawrence; grade 3 and 4) (P<0.05) (Fig. 5). o investigate the effects of metabolites on metabolic pathways, pathway enrichment analysis was performed using the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; database to elucidate the role of the differentially expressed metabolites in the progression of KOsteoarthritis; . The Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; annotation results for the mild and severe KOsteoarthritis; groups were classified according to the pathway type and divided into 3 categories: organismal systems, metabolism, and environmental information processing (Fig. 6A). The enriched pathways were mainly associated with linoleic acid, caffeine, serotonergic synapse, purine, and arachidonic acid metabolism (Fig. 6B). These pathways need to be further validated in future studies for their relevance to severe knee osteoarthritis. This study completed a metabolomic analysis of KOsteoarthritis; patients in southern China using widely targeted metabolomics. In the first part, serum samples were collected from the patient and control groups to identify KOsteoarthritis;related metabolic markers by metabolomic analysis. In the second part, we distinguished between patients with mild and severe KOsteoarthritis; according to the Kellgren–Lawrence; grading scale, obtained key biomarkers associated with KOsteoarthritis; severity, and explored metabolic pathways for these biomarkers. A total of 45 metabolites were associated with KOsteoarthritis; and were potential biomarkers of KOsteoarthritis;. Xanthosine and N-αacetyl-L-asparagine were the key metabolites associated with radiological severity. According to Receiver operating characteristic; curve analysis, metabolite N-α-acetyl-L-asparagine was highly correlated with severe KOsteoarthritis;. High N-α-acetyl-L-asparagine levels may be a key biomarker for identifying KOsteoarthritis; patients at high risk of progression. Metabolomics is a young omics technology that identifies and quantifies metabolites from a variety of tissues . Liquid chromatography–mass spectrometry; or gas chromatography–mass spectrometry; and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy are the common analytical methods used in metabolomics . Metabolomics has been widely applied to detect biomarkers of Osteoarthritis; . Synovial fluid , cartilage , serum and plasma  are frequently used samples for metabolomics testing. Peripheral blood samples are often the first choice for metabolomic studies because of their availability and ease of monitoring the overall metabolic profile of the body . N-α-acetyl-L-asparagine was identified as a key biomarker that could identify patients with severe KOsteoarthritis;. The discovery of this metabolite, which is highly correlated with severe KOsteoarthritis;, was a novel finding. N-α-acetylL-asparagine is an amino acid metabolite, but it has hardly been reported in the literature. Perturbations in amino acid metabolism are possibly closely related to the development of Osteoarthritis; . Leucine, isoleucine and valine are essential amino acids and are collectively referred to as branched-chain amino acids (branched-chain amino acids;). Studies have shown that the occurrence of Osteoarthritis; is associated with dysregulated concentrations of branched-chain amino acids; . The ratio of branched-chain amino acids; to histidine is also considered as a biomarker of KOsteoarthritis; . Arginine is a semi-essential amino acid for humans . Zhang et al.  found a significant decrease in arginine in KOsteoarthritis; patients, probably due to excessive arginine catabolism. Werdyani et al.  verified the correlation between KOsteoarthritis; and arginine deficiency by plasma metabolomics analysis of KOsteoarthritis; patients. Alanine is associated with subchondral osteosclerosis in Osteoarthritis;  and is also considered an important biomarker for identifying patients with Osteoarthritis; . Amino acids can be used for diagnosis and treatment of Osteoarthritis;. Jiang et al.  found that mice in the Osteoarthritis; model group had inhibition of exosomes and increased apoptosis, and after intervention, the glutamine metabolism level of chondrocytes increased, motility and cell function improved, and Osteoarthritis; was relieved. Osteoarthritis; is now considered an inflammatory disease , and glutamine has been found to reduce the inflammatory response of chondrocytes by inhibiting nuclear factor-κB activity, thus exerting a therapeutic effect . Amino acid metabolism has become a current research hotspot due to the important role it plays in the occurrence, development, diagnosis and treatment of Osteoarthritis;. Our study confirmed this. N-α-acetyl-L-asparagine is an amino acid metabolite, a novel biomarker for KOsteoarthritis;, which helps to identify patients with severe KOsteoarthritis;. However, there are few studies on N-α-acetyl-L-asparagine, and further research is needed to explore the role of N-αacetyl-L-asparagine in the occurrence and development of KOsteoarthritis;. Differential metabolite enrichment analysis of severe versus mild knee osteoarthritis involves multiple pathways including arachidonic acid metabolism and linoleic acid metabolism. Osteoarthritis; has long been regarded as a degenerative disease of cartilage. In recent years, as research into the pathogenesis of Osteoarthritis; has intensified, there is increasing evidence that Osteoarthritis; is an inflammatory disease .KOsteoarthritis; patients often suffer from synovitis, which is considered one of the causes of joint pain . Synovial inflammation is accompanied by the release of pro-inflammatory mediators such as prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), nitric oxide (NO) .Study finds arachidonic acid metabolism-related genes strongly associated with synovitis . In clinical practice, patients with severe KOsteoarthritis; are often associated with more severe joint pain than those with mild KOsteoarthritis;. This may be due to the fact that arachidonic acid metabolism affects synovitis, which in turn leads to the production of more inflammatory factors, allowing patients to experience more severe knee pain.This phenomenon is consistent with the findings of our study. However, we did not further test the PGE2 levels of the patients, and we will delve into this mechanism in future studies. There were some limitations to this study. First, it was a single-center study with a small sample size. In the future, more patients need to be included to validate the findings. Second, dietary habits may have some effect on the metabolomics of blood samples , and this study failed to strictly standardize this point. Third, the study failed to measure patients’ levels of PGE2. Fourth, most pathways in pathway enrichment analysis involve fewer metabolites, so the accuracy of pathways predicted is not high. KOsteoarthritis; is a common disease in the middle-aged and elderly populations, and an increasing number of people are experiencing the effects of this disease in the context of an aging population. Metabolomics is a new histological approach. In this study, we applied a broadly targeted metabolomics approach to investigate the metabolite profile associated with the occurrence of KOsteoarthritis;. We revealed that high N-α-acetyl-L-asparagine levels are a key biomarker for identifying severe KOsteoarthritis;, which was a novel finding. The present study revealed the relationship between amino acid metabolism disorders and KOsteoarthritis;, but further in-depth studies are needed to analyze the relationship between N-α-acetyl-L-asparagine and KOsteoarthritis;. Arachidonic acid metabolism is more active in patients with severe KOsteoarthritis;.