Osteoarthritis (Osteoarthritis;) is the major cause of disability in older adults. In the United States.A, Federal Drug Administration (FDA) has recognized that Osteoarthritis; can be a serious disease for which no pharmacological treatment can modify the underlying pathophysiology of the disease and change its natural course . Currently, patient management aims to reduce symptoms and improve quality of life using therapeutic modalities with low side efects. Recently, the Osteoarthritis Research Society International (Osteoarthritis;RSI) recommended patient education, physical activities including exercise programs, and weight control with diet intervention as the core treatment for all patients whatever their health status and Osteoarthritis; severity . Pharmacological modalities can be associated with core treatment if the core treatment alone is not satisfying or to facilitate patients’ adhesion to exercise programs. Among these pharmacological modalities, the use of Nonsteroidal Anti-Infammatory Drugs (Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory Drug;S) was recommended in well-defned conditions while opioids and paracetamol were no more recommended. Terefore, there is a need for safe treatments with an efcacy supported by well-conducted clinical trials. One safe approach could be nutraceuticals for which the most used to manage joint discomfort are glucosamine, chondroitin, collagen, Boswellia, and turmeric extracts . Another potential candidate is Rubus idaeus (Raspberry) leaf extract (RIE) rich in favonoids and phenols that are known to inhibit infammatory responses  by preventing the activation of Mitogen-activated protein kinases; or NFkB signaling pathways . Moreover, polyphenolic-enriched red raspberry Rubus fruit extract reduces collagen breakdown in bovine chondrocytes as well as the severity of arthritis in an antigeninduced arthritis rat model . In cartilage explants, RIE prevented the loss of proteoglycan and Matrix metalloproteinases;-3 and Matrix metalloproteinases;-13 protein expressions. RIE reduced the expression of interleukin (interleukin;)-1 and -6 in macrophages, without change in Tumor Necrosis Factor (TNF) and cyclooxygenase (Cox)-2 expression. Te secretome of macrophages pre-treated with RIE and transferred in chondrocytes decreased the gene expression and protein synthesis of Matrix metalloproteinases;-3, -13, and Cox-2. Globally, these in vitro studies suggested that RIE could limit synovitis and prevent cartilage degradation without inducing toxicity . Patented data (United States.20200222486A1) demonstrated that RIE increased the secretion of 5-Hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acids; and 12-Hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acids;, two intermediaries of the lipoxygenase pathway involved in the resolution of infammation-induced in mice by injection of methylated bovine serum albumin (mBSA). In this model, Rubus Idaeus extract decreased the level of circulating interleukin;-6 plasma but increased the level of 12-Hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acids;, as well as reduced joint swelling in paws . No toxic efects of the investigational product have been reported. In this paper, we report the efect of RIE, on symptoms impairing the quality of life in people sufering from Osteoarthritis;. Tus, we conducted a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial to assess whether supplementation with RIE improved Osteoarthritis; knee pain and function. Tis study was the frst trial applied to the human body. Further, this phase II study has been conducted in full accordance with the International Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human use (IChan-Mei Ho-Henriksson (corresponding author);E6) that examined the impact of ingesting a food supplement composed of RIE on alleviating pain, function, and physical performance in elderly participants who reported having mild to moderate knee pain. Tis study was a phase II randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled with three parallel groups and a monocentric trial including 195 patients with a primary knee Osteoarthritis;. Participants were recruited from June 1, 2017, to December 31, 2018. Te main inclusion criteria were an age of 30 to 75 years, a Body Mass Index (body mass index;) between 18.5 and 35 kg/m2 , a documented diagnosis of primary Osteoarthritis; of the target knee made at least 12 months before screening, radiographic evidence of Osteoarthritis; in the tibiofemoral compartment of the target knee with at least one osteophyte and a measurable joint space narrowing, as diagnosed by standard X-rays taken no longer than 18 months, and a mild to moderate pain not adequately or completely controlled with Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory Drug;s. Te most painful knee was considered the target knee. Te main exclusion criteria were pregnancy or lactation, secondary knee Osteoarthritis;, a Kellgren-Lawrence grade IV in the patellofemoral compartment of the target knee, a clinically objective efusion of the target knee or other joint, asymptomatic Osteoarthritis; of the contralateral knee that was not responsive to paracetamol and required other therapy, change of dietary habit within the preceding month, allergy or contraindication to the tested product, a concurrent medical or psychiatric condition that, in the opinion of the investigator, could have compromised patient’s ability to comply with the study requirements, use of viscosupplementation in any joint including the target knee or other joint within 9 months before screening. Calcium or other dietary supplements in the last months were also exclusion criteria. Participants enrolled could have taken paracetamol and/ or oral Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory Drug;s to manage knee pain. Participants were then asked to use these rescue medications only when needed during the trial. Twenty-four hours before a visit, participants were asked to stop rescue medication for the evaluation of clinical parameters by the investigator. Te trial has been conducted following the Good Clinical Practices (GCP) guidelines and according to the "Declaration of Helsinki" published by the World Medical Association. Te study protocol was approved by the Central Ethics Committee of Te University College Cork, Immunoreactive;land (namely Clinical Research Ethics Committee), agreement number: Extra-cellular matrix; 4 (I) 07/02/17. Te participants were randomly assigned to one of the study groups. Tey received one daily each morning for 12 weeks either 1 capsule containing 400 mg of RIE or 1 capsule containing 200 mg of RIE or 1 capsule of placebo. RIE was a natural hydro-alcoholic extract produced from the leaves of Rubus Idaeus accordingly to patent United States.20200222486A1. Te RIE was standardized in polyphenols such as sanguiine H6 (C82H54O52; molar mass: 1871.27 g / mol) which is one of the main active ingredients. Te placebo capsules contained 100% maltodextrin. Te primary outcome was changed, if any, in pain scores in the target knee joint from baseline to the end of treatment using Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index Likert Scale Version 3.1 (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index LK 3.1) pain subscale with a possible score range between 0 to 20.Te secondary outcomes were pain change using the Visual analogue scale; (Visual Analogue Scale), change in the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index global (sum of each Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index subscale) or stifness ranging from 0 to 8 and physical function ranging from 0 to 68 subscales, and the participant global assessment of the quality of life using a short form (Social functioning;) survey of 36 questions, the International Physical Activity Quartiles;uestionnaire (International Physical Activity Quartiles;uestionnaire;) expressed as Metabolic Equivalent of Task;-min per week, the 20-m walking speed, the Short Physical Performance Battery (Short Physical Performance Battery;) including gait speed measured over 3 m, chair stand time, and standing balance evaluation, the evaluation of associated treatments needed to manage Osteoarthritis; and the Outcome Measures in Rheumatology Clinical Trials and Osteoarthritis Research Society International (OMEndoplasmic reticulum;heumatoid arthritis;Computed tomography;-Osteoarthritis;RSI) responders rate. Te OMEndoplasmic reticulum;heumatoid arthritis;Computed tomography;–Osteoarthritis;RSI criteria for response are (1) improvement in pain or physical function≥50% and an absolute change≥20 mm; or (2) improvement of≥20% with an absolute change≥10 mm in pain and physical function. Compliance with the study treatments was established by counting unused study products. All variables were recorded at baseline, after 6 weeks and 12 weeks of treatment. A prior power calculation was used to determine the sample size in this trial. To determine the appropriate sample size a literature review was completed. Te analysis of diferent nutraceutical medication studies with a similar primary endpoint in the Osteoarthritis; population showed a signifcant response to treatment using a group size of an average of n=45 patients . Taking this information into consideration a sample size of 60 patients/group (n=180) was chosen to be more than adequate to meet sample size requirements defned for a decrease of 14% of the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index scores taking into account a drop-out rate of 7–9% for a treatment period of 3 months, an α of 0.05 and a β of 0.20 (power of 80%). With an expected 8% drop-out rate, it was decided that 65 participants were to be randomized into each group. Statistical analyses were conducted by using SAS version 9.4 (SAS Institute, Cary, NC) on the intent-to-treat (Intent-To-Treat;) population, which included all participants who were randomized into the study, and consumed at least one dose of the study product. Between-group assessments at baseline were evaluated by one-way-analysis-ofvariance (Analysis of variance;) for continuous data and Chi-Square for independence for categorical data. In a posthoc analysis, participants with body mass index;<25 or≥25 kg/m2 have been compared. Te cut-of of 25 was selected because over this value the patient fell within the overweight or obese range. Change from baseline was used for comparisons. Change scores were evaluated by mixed-model repeatedmeasures analysis containing the treatment group, the visit, the baseline score of dependent outcomes, and the treatment x visit interaction. Te adequacy of the model was verifed by residuals analysis. Normality distribution of the residuals was verifed by Skewness and Kurtosis (less than 2 in absolute value). Data presented were the mean and standard error model (Standard error;M). All tests of signifcance were completed at α=0.05, two-tailed. Dunnett corrections were performed to adjust the p-value for multiple comparisons (active treatment group versus a placebo group). A total of 208 participants (74 men and 124 female) were randomly assigned to treatment on a 1:1:1 basis, where n=70 participants were allocated to the Placebo arm, n=69 participants were allocated to the 200 mg RIE arm, and n=69 participants were allocated to the 400 mg RIE arm. Nine participants withdrew prematurely from the study, fve of these were withdrawn due to an adverse event/Severe Adverse Event (SAdverse event;), one participant was withdrawn due to receiving a clinically abnormal blood result, and one participant was withdrawn due to a lack of study product, and two participants did not give reasons for their withdrawal. All other 198 participants completed the study as planned (Fig. 1). Two hundred three participants were included in the Safety population as they took at least one dose of the product, 198 participants were considered eligible for the Intent-To-Treat; analysis. Among the Safety population, 68 participants received a placebo, 69 RIE 200 mg, and 66 RIE 400 mg. Te number of withdrawals was 2 in the placebo group, 2 in the RIE 200 mg group, and 5 in the 400 mg group (Fig. 1; Additional fle 1). At baseline, participants in each group were well-matched (Table 1). Females and males were equally distributed among the three groups. 68.7% in RIE 400 mg, 74.3% in RIE 200 mg, and 70.6% of placebo participants were overweight or obese (body mass index;≥25 kg/m2). All participants had a diagnosis of Osteoarthritis;. 53% had a Kellgren-Lawrence score of 1 and 38% had a Kellgren-Lawrence score of 2. Te remaining participants (9%) had a Kellgren-Lawrence score of 3. No signifcant diferences were observed between the three treatment groups according to demographic characteristics and body mass index;. Fifty-one participants had a body mass index;<25 kg/ m2 and 147 had a body mass index;≥25. At baseline, global Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index and subscores, Visual analogue scale; pain, Social functioning;-36, Short Physical Performance Battery;, and International Physical Activity Quartiles;uestionnaire; scores were not signifcantly diferent between body mass index; groups (Additional fle 2). In Intent-To-Treat; population, Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index pain (in mean (Standard error;M) at baseline: 4.89 (0.21)) signifcantly decreased over time in all groups (p<0.0001). However, there was no diference between treatments. RIE 200 mg and 400 mg after 12 weeks of treatment reduced pain measured by the Visual analogue scale; respectively of -8.51 (1.92) mm and -10.93 (1.95) mm compared to baseline, while the placebo group had a -3.84 (1.89) mm reduction. Tis means pain reduction induced by RIE reached a statistical diference compared to placebo at the highest dose (-7.09 (2.71); 95% Confidence interval;, -13.11 to -1.07; p=0,017) (Fig. 2, Table 2). At the daily dosage of 200 mg or 400 mg, the efect size calculated on the Visual analogue scale; pain score of the Intent-To-Treat; population was 0.30 and 0.45 after 12 weeks, respectively. After 12 weeks of treatment, a subgroup analysis of the participants with a body mass index;≥25, highlighted Visual analogue scale; pain reduction for the 200 and 400 mg doses compared to baseline of respectively -11.25 (2.14) mm and -13.36 (2.26) mm (placebo=-0.37 (2,16) mm). Te reduction was statistically diferent versus placebo for both doses (200 mg -10.88 (3.04); 95% Confidence interval;, -17.64 to -4.12 p=0.0008 and 400 mg -12.99 (3.13); 95% Confidence interval;, -19.95 to -6.04 p<0,0001) (Fig. 3). No signifcant efect of RIE was observed in the normal body mass index; group. Te Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index global score, stifness, and physical function subscores decreased signifcantly with time in all groups. Te decrease tended to be more important in the RIE treated groups than in the placebo groups but no signifcant diference between groups was observed (Table 2). RIE at 400 mg was signifcantly more efcient than placebo to decrease the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index stifness score in the normal body mass index; group after 6, but not 12 weeks of treatment (p=0.042). In the normal body mass index; group, a higher decrease in the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index pain, physical function, and global scores were observed in the RIE 200 mg group than in the placebo group after 6 weeks of treatment (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index global pain: p=0.007742; Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index physical function: p=0.0027; Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index global: p=0.0026) (Additional fle 3). RIE had no signifcant efect on the other secondary end-points (International Physical Activity Quartiles;uestionnaire;, Social functioning;-36, walking distance in treadmill test, Short Physical Performance Battery;, and evaluation of associated treatments needed to manage Osteoarthritis;) except for the International Physical Activity Quartiles;uestionnaire; score at 400 mg in the normal body mass index; group at 12 weeks (p=0.017). After 12 weeks of treatment, over 60% of patients fulflled the OMEndoplasmic reticulum;heumatoid arthritis;Computed tomography;-Osteoarthritis;RSI criteria in RIE 400 mg group, but only 45% in the placebo (p=0.04) (Fig. 4). Tere were two not-related-to-product Serious Adverse Events (SAdverse event;) reported in this study. One participant had a severe SAdverse event; as they were diagnosed with prostate cancer. Tis participant was withdrawn from the trial due to SAdverse event; after visit 1. Te other participant had a moderate SAdverse event; due to renal calculus. Tis participant recovered within three days and remained in the trial. Tere were 123 Adverse event;s reported by 87 (42.9%) participants in total for the Safety Population (N=203). In addition, 95.1% of Adverse event;s were mild to moderate intensity. Tere were 29 participants (42.6%) in the placebo group who reported≥1 Adverse event;(s), 32 participants (46.4%) in the RIE 200 mg group who reported≥1 Adverse event;s, and 26 participants (39.4%) in the RIE 400 mg, who reported≥1 Adverse event;(s). However, there were only 22 participants (10.8%) with≥1 Adverse event;s possibly-related-to-product in the Safety Population (N=203) who reported a total of 24 Adverse event;s possibly-relatedto-product. All other Adverse event;s reported were identifed as not related-to-product. Tere were four participants (5.9%) in the placebo group who reported 1 Adverse event; possibly-related -to-product, ten participants (14.5%) in the RIE 200 mg group who reported≥1 Adverse event;s possibly-related-to-product, and eight participants (12.1%) in the RIE 400 mg who reported≥1 Adverse event;s possibly-related-to-product. Only one participant in each active product group had reported two possibly-related-to-product Adverse event;s. Eight (33.3%) of the possibly-related-to-product Adverse event;s (N=24) were due to elevated blood results requiring General Practitioner follow-up reported by eight participants (N=2 Placebo; N=4 RIE 200 mg group; N=2 RIE 400 mg group). Twelve (50.0%) possibly-related-to-product Adverse event;s (N=24) were due to gastrointestinal issues reported by ten participants (N=1 Placebo; N=5 RIE 200 mg group; N=4 RIE 400 mg group) where three participants had to discontinue the study due to diarrhea. One of these Adverse event;s (RIE 400 mg) was deemed severe for epigastric pain (RIE 400 mg) but this had resolved within one day with no reoccurrence. Two (8.3%) were due to skin rashes (N=2 RIE 400 mg group). Te two remaining Adverse event;s were a severe Adverse event; for a swollen knee (RIE 400 mg) and an Adverse event; (Placebo) for Deep Vein Trombosis which occurred after a fight abroad. In sum, there were no SAdverse event;s related to the product and there was a low proportion of related-to-product Adverse event;s in either active product group. In addition, the overall pattern of safety blood panel and vitals results from baseline to end of the intervention indicated no safety concerns. Te product can be viewed as tolerable as only 2.2% (N=3) of the active product groups (N=135) had to discontinue the product due to gastrointestinal Adverse event;. In total, 191 participants returned their product by end of the trial and the population had high study product compliance and adherence to protocol. Of the participants who returned the product, 185 (96.9%) had a study product consumption compliance equal to or greater than 80%. Te mean compliance was 95.96% (Standard deviation; 7.12, Min 57.0%, max 110.0%). Rescue medication use was recorded in the daily e-diary app as an exploratory outcome. Tis analysis focused on the week before baseline and week 12 (Table 3). Due to missing data, 21 participants from the Intent-To-Treat; population were not included in the analysis for rescue medication use. For those with data, 61.0% (Total N=108; Placebo N=33; Active product N=75) took no rescue medication before baseline to the end of the study, and 22.0% (Total N=39; Placebo N=15; Active product N=24) reduced their use of rescue medication, 13.6% (Total N=24; Placebo N=11; Active product N=13) increased their use of rescue medication and 3.4% (Total N=6; Placebo N=3; Active product N=3) used the rescue medication at the same frequency that at baseline and week 12. Te active product group (either dose) attended to have a higher ratio (61.5%; N=24) of reducing their rescue medication use compared to the placebo (38.5%; N=15). In this paper, we report the data of a clinical trial investigating the clinical efficacy of two doses of RIE, administered orally for 3 months in patients with symptomatic established knee Osteoarthritis;. Compared to placebo, RIE was not effective on the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis index pain which was the primary end-point. In contrast, RIE significantly and rapidly relieved pain evaluated by Visual analogue scale; in knee Osteoarthritis; patients. At the daily dosage of 200 mg or 400 mg, the effect size calculated on the Visual analogue scale; pain score of the Intent-To-Treat; population was 0.30 and 0.45 after 12 weeks, respectively. Compared to Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory Drug;s and paracetamol, the effect size for the pain of RIE is comparable. Indeed, a meta-analysis has reported effect sizes for pain compared to oral placebo comprised between 0.38 and 0.52 for Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory Drug;s after 12 weeks of treatment . Comparing to paracetamol (Efect Size;: 0.18 (0.04 to 0.33), RIE was even more efficient . Considering the excellent safety of RIE, this extract could be a good alternative to Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory Drug;s and paracetamol that show severe adverse effects after long-term administration. Further, our study demonstrated that RIE treatment was associated with a greater reduction of rescue medications including paracetamol and Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory Drug;S than placebo. This data again indicates that RIE has an antalgic effect superior to that of paracetamol and Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory Drug;s. A feature of this study was that it included participants with mild to moderate pain not adequately or completely controlled with Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory Drug;s. This finding indicates that RIE is efficient where Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory Drug;S are not. This could be explained by the difference in the mechanisms of action. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory Drug;s act on inflammation mainly by inhibiting cyclooxygenases while RIE acts by preventing the activation of Mitogen-activated protein kinases; or NFkB signaling pathways that lead to the secretion of a large panel of pro-inflammatory cytokines and metalloproteases  as well as on the resolution of the inflammation. We can speculate that in some participants RIE mechanisms of action are more appropriate to relieve symptoms in chronic inflammatory conditions than Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory Drug;s. This was already observed with other polyphenols like curcumin . Interestingly, a subgroup analysis showed that RIE effect on Visual analogue scale; pain was significant only in overweight/obese participants. Our study fails to bring an explanation to that finding. Both populations were similar in terms of pain or physical activity level at baseline. The only difference was the sex ratio. There were proportionally more men in the overweight/ obese group. One hypothesis would be that men are better responders than women to RIE treatment. This needs to be confirmed as we have not observed a difference in RIE efficacy between men and women in the overall population. Another possible explanation would be that RIE through its anti-inflammatory properties acts on systemic inflammation which is associated with obesity. Inflammatory biomarkers should be explored to verify this hypothesis. Globally, this study also showed that 400 mg per day of RIE is the adequate posology to relieve Visual analogue scale; pain. It is at this dose that we recorded the most responders according to the OMEndoplasmic reticulum;heumatoid arthritis;Computed tomography;-Osteoarthritis;RSI criterion. We can also conclude that three months of treatment are necessary to obtain signifcant analgesia. Tis study showed promising efects of RIE on symptoms of knee Osteoarthritis; but should also be interpreted with caution because our study sufers from some limitations. First, RIE was not efcient on the primary outcome. Te second main limitation was the small sample size as larger groups will be required to conffrm the positive fndings observed in this study . Tis randomized controlled clinical trial demonstrated that RIE, a rubus ideaus extract, is a safe and efcient treatment to manage symptoms of patients with knee Osteoarthritis;. Of course, this result needs to be confrmed in a larger phase III clinical trial including not only clinical parameters but also biochemical markers of infammation and cartilage degradation and imaging structural analysis of joint tissues. Tis trial provides useful information for the design of a larger phase III clinical trial including the sample size estimate, the choice of the dose, and the selection of primary outcomes.